Introduction
The basis of contemporary macroeconomic thinking is centred on solving various problems
emerging from different sectors. Whether it is a question of ensuring equity in wealth distri-
bution, providing solutions to unemployment, or health problems, etc. The model is almost
always the same, solving already existing problems. The human being, the primordial entity
around which this economic thinking revolves, has rarely been introduced as an active player
in the economic equation. The thesis starts from the assumption that nations' socio-economic
prosperity can be built on the basis of people's subjective well-being (SWB). In other words,
if people come to feel that they are living the life they have always wanted, they would play
a key role in the development of the society in various elds. Being subjectively well reects
that the person is in line with her principles, values, and objectives. It also reects the satis-
faction that she has in different domains of her life. Thus, she can be efcient in her work,
with her family, in her society, etc. The concept of subjective well-being has been studied in
several disciplines, however each one treated it through its own glasses, using it in a partial and
specic way. Psychology, for example, has been the leader in the investigation of the SWB
concept. With the goal of discovering what makes people happy, psychologists have focused
on nding the determinants of well-being from a psychological point of view. Economists, on
the other hand, have recently begun to take an interest in this concept by studying its causes
and consequences in relation to other economic subjects such as income, unemployment, or
health, assuming that the causal link can sometimes go both ways. In this thesis, the develop-
ment of SWB is proposed as a means of ensuring the prosperity of the human being as such,
as well as the socio-economic prosperity of a country. More importantly, it is proposed to use
a group of malleable and state-like psychological attributes that will be called psychological
capital, for its development. These attributes have been chosen based on the answers they of-
fer to the following questions: what can we do to give a sense to our lives? How should we
perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities? And nally, how should we manage our
feelings and others' feelings? If it is assumed that people are able to live in harmony with their
principles, values and potentials, one can assume that they will achieve high levels of subjective
well-being. However, this is not sufcient. People need to learn how to perceive themselves and
the environment around them. Therefore, getting to know one's strengths and developing them
will ensure that the individual is able to exploit them to her advantage and be in control of her
life. A nal point, that is no less important than the previous ones, is our ability to manage and
understand our emotions and those of others. For the development of psychological capital's
attributes, a static model is proposed that adopts the accumulation of psychological capital in
schools. The goal is to dene the best time allocation between hours devoted to the learning of
psychological skills versus hours devoted to the learning of technical skills. The possibility of
substitution between them is then analysed with respect to prices and the elasticity of substitu-
tion. This work could be supported by further empirical research that would combine the four
1
Name: Manel Tahir
Student Number: 2727672
Semester Number: 7
Degree Course:
Address: Thomas-Jefferson Straße 6, 55122 Mainz
Email Address: mtahir@students.uni-mainz.de
Master Thesis
Summer Term 2020
Psychological Capital, Subjective Well-Being, and Educational System
Friday, 15 May 2020
Chair: Macroeconomics
Professor: Klaus Wälde
Assistant : Hoang Van Khieu
Faculty of Management and Economics
Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz
