Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 
Name: Manel Tahir
Student Number: 2727672
Semester Number: 7
Degree Course:
Address: Thomas-Jefferson Straße 6, 55122 Mainz
Email Address: mtahir@students.uni-mainz.de
Master Thesis
Summer Term 2020
Psychological Capital, Subjective Well-Being, and Educational System
Friday, 15 May 2020
Chair: Macroeconomics
Professor: Klaus Wälde
Assistant : Hoang Van Khieu
Faculty of Management and Economics
Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz
Abstract
This thesis presents a theoretical context in which two important concepts are combined, namely
subjective well-being (SWB) and psychological capital. Starting from the premise that subjec-
tive well-being's improvement would inuence nations' socio-economic prosperity, and that
psychological capital is a means for its development, the present research proposes the inte-
gration of psychological capital teaching into the educational system. It begins by reviewing
the principle of subjective well-being, then identies the attributes of psychological capital by
answering the following questions: What can we do to give a sense to our lives? How should
we perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities? How should we manage our feelings
and others' feelings? Finally, a static model is proposed, which denes the best time allocation
between teaching hours of technical skills versus psychological skills at school. To conclude, a
discussion on the different cases of time allocation that depend on the elasticity of substitution
and prices is presented.
Key words : Subjective Well-being, Psychological Capital, Personal Strivings Self-Efcacy,
Optimism, Emotional-Intelligence.
Contents
Abstract
Table of Contents
List of Figures
 i
Introduction
 1
1 Subjective Well-Being
 3
1.1 Introduction
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 4
1.2 Dening subjective well being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 4
1.3 Subjectivity and objectivity in denitions of well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 5
1.4 The structure of subjective well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 6
1.4.1 The structure of affective well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 6
1.4.2 The structure of cognitive well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 8
1.5 Context theories of subjective well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 10
1.5.1 Telic theories
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 10
1.5.2 Activity theories
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 11
1.5.3 Cognitive theories
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 12
1.5.4 Temperament and personality
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 12
1.5.5 Relative standards
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 13
1.6 Conclusion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 14
2 Subjective Well-Being in Economics
 15
2.1 Introduction
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 16
2.2 The effect of income on SWB
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 17
2.3 The effect of unemployment on SWB
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 22
2.4 The effect of social relationships on SWB
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 23
2.5 The effect of Health on SWB
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 24
2.6 Other Factors
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 26
2.7 Discussion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 27
2.8 Conclusion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 28
CONTENTS
3 Psychological Capital
 29
3.1 Introduction
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 30
3.2 Predictors of well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 30
3.3 Attributes of psychological capital
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 32
3.3.1 Personal striving: What can we do to give meaning to our lives?
 . . .
 32
3.3.2 Self-efcacy and optimism: How should we perceive ourselves, our
circumstances, and abilities ?
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 34
3.3.3 Emotional intelligence: How should we manage our feelings and oth-
ers' feelings?
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 38
3.4 Conclusion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 40
4 Psychological Capital in the Educational System
 42
4.1 Introduction
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 43
4.2 Static model of SWB development
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 43
4.2.1 Optimal time allocation between technical and psychological learning
skills at school
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 44
4.3 Conclusion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 48
Conclusion
 49
References
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 50
Appendices
 54
A Appendix
 55
A.0.1 The maximisation problem
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 55
List of Figures
2.1 Average happiness (left scale) and GDP per capita, dollars, (right scale) in the
US in 1972- 2016
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 18
2.2 Self-reported life satisfaction vs GDP per capita, 2017
 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 19
2.3 Life satisfaction and income in East Germany, 1991-2001
 . . . . . . . . . . . .
 20
2.4 The relationship between income and happiness at the individual and the aggre-
gate level
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 21
i
Introduction
The basis of contemporary macroeconomic thinking is centred on solving various problems
emerging from different sectors. Whether it is a question of ensuring equity in wealth distri-
bution, providing solutions to unemployment, or health problems, etc. The model is almost
always the same, solving already existing problems. The human being, the primordial entity
around which this economic thinking revolves, has rarely been introduced as an active player
in the economic equation. The thesis starts from the assumption that nations' socio-economic
prosperity can be built on the basis of people's subjective well-being (SWB). In other words,
if people come to feel that they are living the life they have always wanted, they would play
a key role in the development of the society in various elds. Being subjectively well reects
that the person is in line with her principles, values, and objectives. It also reects the satis-
faction that she has in different domains of her life. Thus, she can be efcient in her work,
with her family, in her society, etc. The concept of subjective well-being has been studied in
several disciplines, however each one treated it through its own glasses, using it in a partial and
specic way. Psychology, for example, has been the leader in the investigation of the SWB
concept. With the goal of discovering what makes people happy, psychologists have focused
on nding the determinants of well-being from a psychological point of view. Economists, on
the other hand, have recently begun to take an interest in this concept by studying its causes
and consequences in relation to other economic subjects such as income, unemployment, or
health, assuming that the causal link can sometimes go both ways. In this thesis, the develop-
ment of SWB is proposed as a means of ensuring the prosperity of the human being as such,
as well as the socio-economic prosperity of a country. More importantly, it is proposed to use
a group of malleable and state-like psychological attributes that will be called psychological
capital, for its development. These attributes have been chosen based on the answers they of-
fer to the following questions: what can we do to give a sense to our lives? How should we
perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities? And nally, how should we manage our
feelings and others' feelings? If it is assumed that people are able to live in harmony with their
principles, values and potentials, one can assume that they will achieve high levels of subjective
well-being. However, this is not sufcient. People need to learn how to perceive themselves and
the environment around them. Therefore, getting to know one's strengths and developing them
will ensure that the individual is able to exploit them to her advantage and be in control of her
life. A nal point, that is no less important than the previous ones, is our ability to manage and
understand our emotions and those of others. For the development of psychological capital's
attributes, a static model is proposed that adopts the accumulation of psychological capital in
schools. The goal is to dene the best time allocation between hours devoted to the learning of
psychological skills versus hours devoted to the learning of technical skills. The possibility of
substitution between them is then analysed with respect to prices and the elasticity of substitu-
tion. This work could be supported by further empirical research that would combine the four
1
psychological attributes proposed and SWB into a single model to identify their effect on it.
Educational programmes could be proposed that would take into account the learning of these
and other attributes to ensure a more holistic education for children and ultimately enable them
to achieve high levels of well-being as young people and later as adults.
2
Chapter 1
Subjective Well-Being
1.1 Introduction
"SWB is a reection of the quality of life of an individual and of societies. How people feel
and think about their own lives is essential to understanding well-being in any society that
grants importance not just to the opinions of experts or leaders, but to all people in the society"
(
Diener, Oishi, & Lucas
,
 2003
)
. "A growing body of evidence suggests that high well-being
and life satisfaction signicantly improve life within the four areas of health and longevity,
work and income, social relations, and societal benets"
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
. In order to
understand how people gain a higher well-being, different denitions of SWB will be reviewed,
shedding light on the difference between the meaning of happiness and well-being, as well as
the subjectivity and objectivity of well-being. The next step will be to investigate the different
components of SWB and the relationship between them. The nal part of the chapter will be
dedicated to the discussion of different context theories related to SWB. A discussion about
measures of Subjective well-being will however not be introduced in this thesis, as the aim of
the research is to understand the nature of SWB, and then use it as a means. In other words,
SWB will not be the end of this research, but a source of information to identify attributes that
can help people improve their well-being.
1.2 Dening subjective well being
Many philosophers and social scientists have taken an interest in the denition of well-being
and happiness. A rst sense of happiness was dened by external criteria such as virtues. Hap-
piness is not seen as a subjective state, but as possessing something desirable. Aristotle dened
Eudaemonia
1
as having a virtuous life. According to him virtue is not a means that leads to joy,
but a standard that is used to judge people's lives. This means that Eudaemonia is not happi-
ness in itself, rather a desirable state judged according to a particular value framework. So the
criterion of happiness in this context is not the subjective judgement of the actor, but the value
framework of the observer
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
.
The second sense of happiness has been given by social scientists who have focused on the
question "what causes people to evaluate their lives in positive terms?". At this point, the def-
inition of SWB was labelled "life satisfaction" and relies on the norms of the respondent to
determine what the life is. Diener uses the denition of Shin and Johnson (1978) to reect
this aspect of subjective well-being which was developed by social scientists, "happiness is the
overall assessment of the quality of life of the person, according to her own criteria"
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
.
A related denition given by Chekola (1975), states that "happiness is the harmonious satisfac-
1
Sometimes anglicized as eudaemonia or eudemonia, is a Greek word commonly translated as happiness or
welfare; however, "human ourishing or prosperity"and "blessedness" have been proposed as more accurate trans-
lations.
4
tion of the person's desires and goals"
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. One can notice from these denitions that
happiness has been related to the person's subjectivity .
The third sense given to happiness and well-being attaches greater importance to emotions.
In his article, Diener uses the denition of (Bradbun 1969), which denes happiness as the
result of the preponderance of positive affects over negative affects. This means that the per-
son has either experienced more positive emotions in her life than negative ones, or that she is
predisposed to positive emotions whether or not she experiences them in the present
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
.
In the previous denitions, the terms happiness and well-being have been used without dis-
tinction. However, according to psychologists, happiness is dened as "a state of contented
pleasantness and is one of many specic emotions that people can feel in response to life events
and daily experiences"
(
Diener et al.
,
 2009
)
.ﬁIt is a popular term that can refer to pleasant moods
and emotions experienced at any given moment (positive affect), to general evaluation of life
as life satisfaction, or to subjective well-being"
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
. The term happiness
is not always used with precision. It can be used to express a broader meaning, something
close to what can be called well-being. Denitions of well-being however, involve an evalua-
tion, and differ in the object of the evaluation. For example, in a research related to quality of
life in the health eld, well-being can be dened as "being healthy". In the economic context,
well-being is dened as "being rich". Nevertheless, a broader and more holistic denition can
also be given to the term Well-being as "
the individual's global evaluation of her life across
a variety of different aspects of that life
"
 (
Diener et al.
,
 2009
)
. Thus, well-being can also
refer to being well in general rather than being well in a specic context of life, for example
being healthy, or being rich. It represents people's evaluations of their lives, both in terms of
cognitions (e.g.,ﬁMy life is satisfying") and feelings (e.g.,ﬁMy experiences are pleasant and re-
warding). It reects people's beliefs and feelings about whether they are leading a desirable and
rewarding life
 (
Diener
,
 2012
)
. These cognitive and emotional evaluations, concern events that
happen to them, their body and mind, and the circumstances in which they live"
 (
Diener
,
 2006
)
,
including judgements and feelings about life satisfaction, interest and engagement, affective re-
actions such as joy and sadness to life events, and satisfaction with work, relationships, health,
recreation, meaning and purpose, and other important domains
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
.
1.3 Subjectivity and objectivity in denitions of well-being
In dening SWB, it is interesting to distinguish between objectivity and subjectivity. This dis-
tinction concerns the perspective from which life is being evaluated. Objective denitions would
require an objective point of view, independent of the subjective values and norms of individu-
als. In other words, objective denitions would include characteristics that would be considered
5
as an ideal, regardless of the assessment of the individual who is experiencing those character-
istics. Subjective denitions of well-being on the other hand, are based on the interests, needs,
preferences and desires of the individual
 (
Diener et al.
,
 2009
)
. In some cases, the two denitions
may be found to align. For instance in various objective denitions, physical health is consid-
ered as an important component of well-being. At the same time, it would be difcult to say that
a person's life is going well if she is not in good health. Health is considered to be objectively
good, and potentially plays an important role in subjective denitions of well-being, as most
people prefer to be healthy
 (
Diener et al.
,
 2009
)
. The subjective denitions of well-being are
mainly aligned with people's interests. Life does not go well unless the individual who lives
it considers it good and evaluates it positively. Thus, a person could have a good health and
nancial situation however, she could judge that she is not satised with her life. Despite some
alignments between subjective and objective denitions of well-being, the distinction between
the two remains crucial.
1.4 The structure of subjective well-being
SWB includes a broad category of phenomena, including individuals' emotional responses, ar-
eas of satisfaction and overall life satisfaction. In his famous article "Subjective Well-Being"
(
Ed
,
 1984
)
 uses the research results of Andrews and Withey (1976) to distinguish between the
3 components of SWB: Life satisfaction LS, Positive Affect PA, and negative affect NA. Years
later, Diener and colleagues (1999) included a fourth component which is satisfaction in spe-
cic domains DS, such as satisfaction with health. In their denition of SWB, researchers refer
to cognitive components (life satisfaction and domain satisfaction), and affective components
(positive affect and negative affect). The cognitive components are based on people's evolv-
ing beliefs about their lives. The emotional components reect the amount of pleasant and
unpleasant feelings that people experience in their life
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
.
1.4.1 The structure of affective well-being
"Moods and emotions, which together are labelled affect, represent people's on-line evaluations
of the events that occur in their lives"
 (
Diener, Suh, Lucas, & Smith
,
 1999
)
. In his famous ar-
ticle on SWB
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
 Diener describes the various research studies that have addressed the
question of the correlation between positive and negative affect. Some researchers have come
to the conclusion that positive and negative affect are independent. Among those researchers
who defended this result, Bradburn who found that positive and negative items are relatively
independent, proposed that happiness consists of two separable components (positive affect and
negative affect). He inferred that although positive and negative affect scales were practically
uncorrelated, they each had independent and progressive correlations with overall well-being.
6
Bradburn's ndings support the idea that the absence of negative affect does not equate to the
presence of positive affect. According to Bradburn's results, measures that attempt to improve
overall well-being should reduce negative affect and account for the increase of positive affect.
Researches done by Diener and Emmons
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
 showed that negative and positive affect
are negatively correlated. Unlike Bradburn, they conducted affect studies over varying periods
of time from few moments to few weeks and measured the degree of negative and positive emo-
tions felt by respondents. The results of their researches indicate that the correlation between
the two natures of affect is negative at particular points in time. But that this correlation dimin-
ishes as the time interval becomes longer (weeks or more) in the person's life. So the average
levels of positive and negative affect that a person can experience are independent, even though
experiencing both affects at the same time is very unlikely. Average levels of affect refer to the
frequency and intensity of each emotion. Based on the results found, Diener and colleagues
proposed that only average levels of affect over long periods of time (weeks or more) are statis-
tically independent of each other.
Because negative and positive affect are negatively correlated in frequency (it is very unlikely
to experience negative feelings and positive feelings at the same time), their intensity should be
positively correlated so that average affect levels become independent. This nding has been
supported by series of other research studies done by Diener and colleagues. They found that
intensity of positive and negative affect has a positive correlation of R = 0.70. People expe-
rience positive and negative affects with relatively the same intensity. Since the intensity and
frequency of the appearance of affects are not correlated, when combined additively, their in-
uence makes the average levels of positive and negative affects independent over time
 (
Ed
,
1984
)
. Diener and colleagues concluded that although intensity is an important dimension of
the experience of affect, it has no inuence on general subjective well-being. What can, how-
ever, predict general well-being in terms of affective experience is the frequency of positive
states compared to negative states in a person's life over time
 (
Larsen & Eid
,
 2008
)
.
Although positive and negative affect are negatively correlated in their frequency of occur-
rence, the amount of affect one person tends to have does not affect the amount of the other
affect. This observation made it possible to conceptualize contributions independent of each
affect to the hedonic component of overall subjective well-being. This hedonic component has
been dened by researchers as the relationship between positive and negative affect over time
in a person's life
 (
Larsen & Eid
,
 2008
)
.
7
1.4.2 The structure of cognitive well-being
A third dimension of SWB is "life satisfaction" (LS). It refers to a process of judgement, in
which individuals evaluate the quality of their lives based on a set of criteria of their own. A
comparison of perceived life circumstances with a set of self-imposed norms is made and if
the conditions meet these standards, the person reports a high level of satisfaction in her life.
Therefore, life satisfaction is a conscious cognitive judgement of one's life in which the criteria
for judgement are up to the person. Although it could be agreed on the important components
of a good life, such as having good health and fullling social relationships. Individuals give
different weights to these components. They may also have unique criteria of what is a good life,
criteria that in some cases may be more important than the common reference criteria
 (
Pavot &
Diener
,
 2009
)
.
Bottom-up versus Top-down theories
Bottom-up theory states that people maintain a certain degree of well-being by summing up
small pleasures. According to this theory, if a person wants to judge whether she is happy in
life, a certain mental calculation is used to add up the momentary pleasures and sorrows. In
contrast, the top-down theory states that there is an overall propensity to experience things pos-
itively, and this propensity inuences the momentary interactions an individual has with the
world. In this approach, overall personality characteristics inuence the way individuals react
to events
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. After the integration of Domain satisfaction (DS) into the structure of
cognitive well-being, researchers have used bottom-up versus top-down theories to explain the
nature of the structural relationship between the two elements. Bottom-up theory states that
judgements of life satisfaction are based on satisfaction in a relatively limited number of life's
areas. This is equivalent to saying that the correlation between LS and DS is only a reection
of the causal inuence of DS on LS. For example, a person who has high satisfaction with her
marriage, would experience high life satisfaction because her marital status is an important as-
pect of her overall life satisfaction. On the other hand, top-down theory supports the opposite
direction of causality. A person who is satised with her life in general could evaluate the dif-
ferent areas of her life in a positive way. That does not mean that the general satisfaction is
based on satisfaction with particular domains
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
.
The simplest of the top-down models states that people who are satised with their life are
also satised with everything else. This means that there is a strong correlation between DSs.
However, empirical research has shown the opposite. The correlation between DSs is small
to moderate and many respondents reported high levels of satisfaction in some areas and low
levels of satisfaction in other areas. In a study conducted by (Schimmack, 2006) on 1241
undergraduates, he asked them questions about their life satisfaction in general and about 9 do-
mains (academic, recreation, romantic, family/parents, friendships, health, housing, trafc, and
8
weather). He found a mean correlation of R = .28 for all 9 domains of satisfaction. The simple
top-down model also states that the correlation between LS-DS should be the same for all areas
of satisfaction. Empirical studies have shown however, that there is a strong correlation between
LS-DS in some areas considered important to respondents
2
, and lower correlations between LS
and other domains (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
). It is nevertheless possible according to Ulrich Schim-
mack
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
 to conceptualize a more sophisticated top-down model, which will
take into account the results of the simple model, by adding two hypotheses:
1. The DSs are substantially inuenced by factors specic to the domain.
2. LS has a stronger impact on DS in more important areas (family) compared to less important
areas (Weather).
Schimmack obtained strong evidence by examining the pattern of correlations among several
domains. He predicted DS-DS correlations in the 9 domains mentioned previously in a study
on undergraduates. The results showed a correlation between the DS of the 9 domains with LS
and the correlation of the DS of one domain with the other 8 domains. From these correlations,
he created a variable that counts for the average correlation of the DS in one domain with the
other domains. According to the top-down model, there is a high correlation between the mean
variable of the correlation of the DS with the other domains and LS. Schimmack effectively
found a supporting result with a correlation of R = 0.80 ( p < 0.05). Both variables were also
correlated with the importance of the domain (according to its average ranking among the re-
spondents). This means that an important domain such as family has a high correlation with LS
and the other domains compared to a less important domain such as the weather. These correla-
tions would still imply that domain satisfaction has no causal effect on LS
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
.
In the experience of introspective evidence, researchers (Schimmack, (Diener and Oishi 2002))
used a more direct approach to determine the causes of LS. Researchers looked at what re-
spondents were thinking when they answered questions about LS. Consistent with bottom-up
theory, respondents reported thinking about important areas in their lives such as family more
than other areas such as the weather. Thinking about important life domains, moderated the
correlations between DS-LS. Moreover, the DS-LS correlations were low when respondents
did not think about the domains in question. This result is a contrary evidence for the effect of
the top-down theory, as the top-down effect does not require activation of domain knowledge
during LS judgments
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
.
Based on the various ndings on the bottom-up and top-down theory regarding the relation-
ship between DS and LS. It can be deduced that there is a correlation between LS and some
2
Schimmack investigated this question by examining the correlation between the ranking of satisfaction do-
mains and the correlation of the LS-DS. He found a strong correlation between the importance of the domain and
its correlation with LS.
9
DSs that are considered important to people. Although dening the causal links between the
two variables remains ambiguous, it is interesting to include both theories in analyses related
to cognitive well-being. Bottom-up and top-down theories have also been applied to subjective
well-being in general. Concerning the bottom-up theory, it was a question of understanding the
inuence of external events, as well as demographics on subjective well-being. Studies con-
ducted by Campbell, Converse and Rodgers (1976) showed that demographic factors such as
age, sex, income, race, education and marital status explained less than 20% of the variation
in SWB. Andrews and Withey (1976) found that these same variables accounted for 8% of the
variance of the SWB
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1999
)
. Given the modest effect of external objective vari-
ables, researchers turned to top-down theory to explain the variability of the SWB. They have
investigated the structures that are part of an individual's personality and that determine how
people perceive events and circumstances.
Answering the question of causality regarding the relationship between the elements of cog-
nitive well-being would not give us a clear explanation about how people achieve satisfaction
in a specic domain or in life in general. Since objective variables are responsible for only a
modest percentage of the variance in SWB, the aim would be to know what characteristics drive
people to be satised with their lives or with a particular domain.
1.5 Context theories of subjective well-being
In addition to bottom-up and top-down theories, there are other theoretical models that have
examined the concept of subjective well-being under different angles, ranging from biological
theories that have studied the genetic predispositions of happiness, to relative standards, which
have examined the inuence of the concept of comparison on individuals' well-being. In the
hope of better identifying the variables that can have a substantial inuence on the SWB, it is
interesting to review some of the different theories of the SWB.
1.5.1 Telic theories
Most people experience a feeling of well-being after achieving a goal or fullling a desire.
However, the relevant question that one can ask, is whether the achievement of goals will cre-
ate considerable differences in SWB between people, or whether it only reects a temporary
change (in this case short-term mood elevation). Some theorists such as (Chekola 1975) sup-
port the idea that happiness (well-being) depends on the continual accomplishment of the life
plan. In other words, the total set of the person's goals. So according to the "life plan" ap-
proach, SWB depends on the coherence of the goals in the person's life and their achievement
(
Ed
,
 1984
)
.
10
According to Telic theory
3
, people get to experience a certain level of subjective well-being
when they reach their goals and desires. However, these objectives should be harmonious with
each other throughout their life. They must be realistic, within their reach and correspond to
their skills. In other words, they should not be very ambitious in comparison to the person's
means and capacities, in order not to create a certain frustration due to their non-realization.
(
Brunstein
,
 1993
)
 conducted an empirical study on the relationship of goals to students' sub-
jective well-being during the rst semester (the attributes of subjective well-being as well as
the measures of the 3 dimensions of personal goals were measured 4 times over the course of
one semester). He examined the extent to which the 3 dimensions of personal goals - commit-
ment, attainability and progress in achieving the goal - were predictive of students' subjective
well-being over a one-semester period. Commitment to goals was found to moderate the ex-
tent to which changes in goal attainment explained changes in well-being. Progress in goal
achievement mediated the effect of (the Goal Commitment times Goal Attainability) on SWB
interaction. Concerning goal commitment and attainability of personal goals: a student indicat-
ing a high level of goal commitment in addition to favourable conditions to attain personal goals
would display a moderate increase in subjective well-being from Time 1 to Times 2, 3, and 4,
respectively. In contrast, a student who had a high level of goal commitment but unfavourable
conditions to attain personal goals would show a marked decline in subjective well-being at
each of the three testing periods. In comparison, subjective well-being of students who felt less
committed to personal goals would be relatively insensitive to differences in the attainability of
personal goals. Which means that students who both possessed a high level of goal commit-
ment and experienced favourable conditions to attain personal goals displayed positive changes
in well-being over time. In contrast, subjective well-being was impaired in students who in-
dicated high levels of goal commitment in conjunction with unfavourable conditions to attain
personal goals. From this study it can be concluded that setting goals and striving to achieve
them is not enough to improve subjective well-being. In addition, there must be a commitment
to achieve them and the ability to do so. Committing to objectives while lacking condence in
one's ability to achieve them will not allow one to get to the desired result (achieving the goal).
It is therefore important to commit to personal goals with the precondition of having a high
probability of being able to achieve them (favourable condition and adequate skills), in order to
nally hope for an improvement in subjective well-being.
1.5.2 Activity theories
Activity theory reects what Diener mentioned in his article
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
 about the fact that sub-
jective well-being could be the result of an evolutionary process towards the achievement of
a goal. Activity theories or Autotelic theories state that happiness and in our case subjective
3
Telic: tending toward an end or outcome
11
well-being, is only an auxiliary consequence (by-product) of human activity. Aristotle was one
of the rst defenders of this theory. According to him, human beings have certain abilities
(capacities), and happiness will arise if these capacities are exploited in an excellent way. Ac-
cording to Diener, the most explicit formulation concerning activity and SWB, was proposed
by (Csikszentmihalyi, 1975) in his Flow theory
4
. "Activities are seen as pleasurable when the
challenge is matched to the person's skill level. If an activity is too easy, boredom will develop;
if it is too difcult anxiety will result. When a person is involved in an activity that demands
intense concentration and in which the person's skills and the challenge of the task are roughly
equal, a pleasurable ow experience will result
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. Contrary to Telic theory, happiness
according to activity theory is experienced when people are involved in interesting activities
and not through the achievement of goals.
1.5.3 Cognitive theories
Several theories based on memory, conditioning or cognitive principles, which can be grouped
under the rubric of associationistic models, state that some people are predisposed to have high
levels of well-being. One of the explanations given for the weak correlation between objective
circumstances and life events and people's well-being is that people do not react passively
to these events. On the contrary, these life events are constructed and framed, evaluated and
interpreted, contemplated and remembered. The reason why these objective variables such as
wealth and health have small impacts on people's well-being is that different psychological
treatments moderate the impact of events, life circumstances and demographic factors on well-
being
 (
Lyubomirsky
,
 2001
)
. Cognitive theories focus on the power of cognitive processes to
determine the individuals' well-being. The AIM (attention, interpretation, and memory) model
of well-being is one such cognitive theories. It states that people with high SWB tend to direct
their attention to positive stimuli, interpret events in a positive way, and remember past events
with positive memory bias. People who testify high level of SWB, naturally interpret neutral
and ambiguous events in a positive way. In addition, happy people are not different in terms of
the number of positive and negative events they experience. However, they tend to remember
events as if they were better than they actually were, which leads to a positive and protective
memory bias
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
.
1.5.4 Temperament and personality
Temperament has a very important impact on the individuals' level of well-being. Studies on
heritability on twins who have been raised in different environments have shown that both pos-
itive and negative affect have been strongly linked to the genetic basis
 (
Diener, Suh, & Oishi
,
4
Flow is an optimal psychological state that people experience when engaged in an activity that is both appro-
priately challenging to one's skill level, often resulting in immersion and concentrated focus on a task. This can
result in deep learning and high levels of personal and work satisfaction.
12
1997
)
. In addition to the heritability factor, researchers have been interested in studying the
inuence of the big 5 personality traits on SWB. Among the most studied personality traits we
nd extroversion and neuroticism, which have been shown to be most related traits to SWB lev-
els (Diener & Lucas, 1999; Rusting & Larsen, 1997). Extroversion has been shown to predict
positive affects (Lucas & Fujita, 2000), while neurocticism has been shown to predict negative
affects (Fujita, 199 1)
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
. Agreeableness and conscientiousness traits are
also moderately correlated with SWB through environmental rewards. In most environments,
people who are agreeable and conscientious can receive more positive feedback from their sur-
roundings, which will allow them to experience higher levels of SWB
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1997
)
.
Other psychological characteristics seem to have their share of inuence on the SWB. Self-
esteem is one of the strongest predictors of SWB. Campbell et al. 1976, found that self-esteem
was highly correlated with life satisfaction
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. This correlation is found to be of high
magnitude in individualistic societies (Diner and Diener 1995). In collectivist cultures self es-
teem and life satisfaction are typically correlated but not as much as in individualist societies
(
Diener et al.
,
 1997
)
. Another personality characteristic that has been shown to have a relation-
ship with well-being is internality. Internality is the tendency to attribute outcomes to oneself
rather than to external circumstances. This variable often referred to as locus of control has been
found to be related to subjective well-being in a number of populations. Internality can also be
interpreted as the person's perception of having choice or control over her life. Other research
has also shown that people's perceptions of their efcacy, personal resources and skills are also
related to SWB
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. Another trait that could be directly related to SWB is optimism. It
has been demonstrated in the USA that having unrealistic optimism and an exaggerated percep-
tion of control, function as a coping mechanism in order to restore or maintain psychological
and physical health
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1997
)
.
1.5.5 Relative standards
Theories of relative standards, state that well-being results from the comparison between certain
standards, such as (the individual's past, other people's lives, goals, ideals, etc.) and current
conditions. According to the social comparison theories, people refer to other people's lives
as standards in their comparison. The person will feel better if she sees herself better than the
person with whom she has compared herself and vice versa. Other theories, such as adaptation
theories, state that the person's past is the standard of comparison. For example, if a person
feels that her current situation exceeds the standards of the past, that person will experience a
better level of well-being. However, adaptation theory also states that people will experience
a high level of well-being for a limited period of time. Afterwards, once they have adopted
new standards in relation to their new situation, the event that once provided them with a better
well-being will no longer have this effect
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
.
13
1.6 Conclusion
In this chapter various theoretical concepts related to SWB were reviewed. In the rst part,
the focus was on the SWB's denition and structure. Affective Well-Being is reected in a
sum of emotional reactions which are often responses to immediate and short-term factors.
In some cases, a person may feel sad or happy, without attaching a particular object to that
feeling (this state can be named Mood) and in other cases, people ignore their emotions or
are simply in denial. However, this does not prevent them from recognising the undesirable
factors in their lives. Cognitive Well-Being however, is a person's conscious evaluation of her
life's circumstances which reects her conscious values and goals. Since emotional reactions
reect unconscious motives and inuences of the body's condition
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1999
)
 and
since the notion of satisfaction reects more of a long-term perspective, the next steps will
analyse characteristics, attributes or processes that might lead people to be satised with their
lives in a long-term perspective. In other words, the focus will be on the cognitive part of SWB,
without studying how or why do people experience positive or negative affect. The last part
of the chapter was dedicated to understanding how the different theorists tried to answer the
question "why some people are happier than others". It has been found that there are a number
of variables which in a complementary or separate way inuence the levels of subjective well-
being. Among these variables, there are components that are inborn in people, and whose goal
of inuencing them would be unrealisable. Variables such as personality traits which may also
be unchangeable, are inuenced by the culture and the environment in which people live. In
fact, Diener and colleagues have come to the conclusion that people experience high levels of
well-being when they live in environments that are congruent with their personality traits
 (
Ed
,
1984
)
. The objective for the next chapters would be rst to discuss what was discovered about
SWB in an economical eld and then to identify the variables which are dened as to be state-
like and which could have an inuence on SWB in general. To sum up, the next step will be to
focus on the state-like attributes that can be learned or adopted whatever the personality of the
individual is, and which could inuence peoples' life satisfaction in a long run.
14
Chapter 2
Subjective Well-Being in Economics
2.1 Introduction
Subjective well-being in economics is translated into utility. Since utility has been the focus
of economists' interest, it has been identied by the quantity of goods and services consumed
by the individual. The choice of these goods and services revealed the preferences of individ-
uals. In other words, the utility or well-being of agents is expressed by the satisfaction of their
preferences. Economists start from the assumption that each individual is rational, has all the
necessary information and always aspires to maximize her utility. However, several studies in
behavioral economics and psychology show that people often make inconsistent decisions, do
not learn from their experiences, base their own satisfaction on how their situation is compared
to others' satisfaction and thus deviate from the standard model of the rational economic agent.
If people exhibit limited rationality when it comes to maximizing utility, then their choices do
not necessarily reect their "true" preferences, and relying exclusively on choices to reduce
what people want, loses some of its appeal
 (
Kahneman & Krueger
,
 2006
)
.
Economists long after psychologists have turned to other alternatives to measure individuals'
utility. Direct reports of subjective well-being are beginning to gain interest and may play a key
role in reecting consumer's preferences and welfare. Many economists studied SWB's deter-
minants, such as income/ relative income, unemployment and health. These kind of studies are
based on the following general form:
S W B
r epor t
=
r
(
h
)
The reported SWB, which often represents the answer to a single question about life satis-
faction or happiness, is a function (r) of the true SWB(h). The true SWB is determined by a set
of social, economic, and environmental factors (Xs). this relationship is modelled empirically
as an additive function :
S W B
it
=

1
x
1
it
+

2
x
2
it
+
:::
+

it
Individuals' differences in the reporting of their responses is captured in the error term
 (
Dolan,
Peasgood, & White
,
 2008
)
. However, it should be pointed out that responses on the SWB are
treated differently in terms of both the content of the response and the nature of the SWB vari-
able. For example, some researchers treat SWB as cardinal, while others treat it as a latent
variable and analyze the data with logit or probit models. Nevertheless, SWB is estimated by
interpreting the different coefcients resulting from the empirical study. These interpretations
are mainly based on the fact that the causal link passes from the explanatory variables to the
dependent variable, and the unobserved variables are not correlated with the explanatory vari-
ables
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
. Another difculty with the SWB study is that the results found so
far, answer mainly the research question. In addition, different investigators measure different
16
concepts (e.g. happiness, distress, life satisfaction, etc.). It is therefore rare that a wide range of
concepts are evaluated in a single study
 (
Diener & Seligman
,
 2004
)
. Furthermore, and despite
the fact that in recent years researchers have been using different, more sophisticated methods
such as panel data on large samples, these same methods also have certain limitations for ex-
ample, controlling for time-invariant individual effects. Although the causal link will be further
strengthened, the effect of variables that cannot be observed cannot be measured. This topic
will be discussed in more detail at the end of the chapter.
2.2 The effect of income on SWB
Income was one of the rst factors studied by researchers to identify its inuence on the degree
of people's well-being. One of the main triggers for research of the income effect on happiness
was the article written by Easterlin (1974) which exposed the paradox of substantial growth in
real incomes in Western countries
1
over many years (50 years), but without any corresponding
increase in reported levels of happiness. Whereas richer people report higher levels of happi-
ness than the poorer
 (
Clark, Frijters, & Shields
,
 2008
)
. The paradox states that at a point in time
happiness varies directly with income both among and within nations, but over time happiness
does not trend upward as income continues to grow. It is the contradiction between the point-
of-time and time series ndings that is the root of the paradox. see
 (gure
 2.1
)
 and
 (gure
 2.2
)
.
As reported by
 (
Frey & Stutzer
,
 2002
)
 subjective well-being seems to increase with income.
Since the relationship of the function between the two variables is concave, income provides
happiness at low levels of development, but once a certain threshold is reached (around 10,000
$), average income in a country has little effect on average well-being.
In transition countries however, a stronger inuence of income on welfare can be found,
taking the example of post-reunication East Germany see
 (gure
 2.3
)
. East Germany observed
a substantial increase in income between 1991 and 2002 and reported a considerable increase
in life satisfaction
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
.
Sophisticated researches using multiple regressions and controlling for several demographic
variables have been able to prove that income does indeed play a role in increasing happiness,
or well-being. A study conducted by
 (
Blanchower & Oswald
,
 2004
)
 has shown that higher
income is associated with higher happiness. However, more income will not lead to higher
happiness in innity. Indeed there is a non-linear relationship between the two variables. There
is diminishing marginal utility with absolute income
 (
Frey & Stutzer
,
 2002
)
. The same propor-
tional increase in income yields a lower increase in happiness at higher income levels. Other
studies that have used panel data to control for the effect of unobserved variables have concluded
1
this trend has also been observed in other countries such as Japan and European countries.
17
Figure 2.1: Average happiness (left scale) and GDP per capita, dollars, (right scale) in the US
in 1972- 2016
Source:
(
Sachs
,
 2018
)
that changes in income are correlated with changes in happiness. Using exogenous variations
in income has allowed to demonstrate the causal link between income and happiness. Other re-
searches using large samples and cross time cross country models that control for country xed
effects, were able to prove that happiness co-moves with macroeconomic variables including
GDP and GNP
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
.
One of the most widely adopted explanations about the stagnation in levels of happiness despite
the improvement in income over the years, is the fact that income has an effect on happiness
when individuals compare themselves to others. People may have increases in their income,
but do not feel a better level of well-being when they compare themselves to others who have a
higher income than their own. This comparison can even be extended to an international level.
In a study conducted by
 (
Blanchower & Oswald
,
 2004
)
, they have indeed found that relative
income matters per se as opposed to absolute income. In
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
 Clark and his
colleagues conceptualized a model to explain the Easterlin Paradox. They used the concept of
income comparison between self and others (a reference group), which they called social com-
parison, and between the person's current and past situation, which they called adaptation or
habituation.
Regarding social comparison, the main prediction of their model is that the gradient between
income and happiness will be more pronounced within a country at a given point in time than
over time, see
 (gure
 2.4
)
. This is due to the fact that people with high incomes within a country
enjoy a privileged status. It is essential to note however, that this status advantage has no over-
18
Figure 2.2: Self-reported life satisfaction vs GDP per capita, 2017
Source:
World happiness report (2019), World Bank
all impact on happiness at the national level (in their model, the more status a person gains, the
more status others will lose. Thus, status is a zero-sum game). Over time within a country, the
only effect of income on overall happiness will be via the consumption component of the utility
function. At a point in time, those with higher incomes enjoy higher consumption and higher
status and are thus happier. However, over time as everyone becomes richer, as the amount of
status is xed, the only benet to the country is from higher consumption, the value of which
drops towards zero.
In the empirical eld, much research has been conducted to test the effect of social compar-
ison on happiness with respect to income. The challenging point was to identify the reference
point, for which several approaches have been used. There are researchers who have predicted
the income of "people like me" and then used it in the regression of the SWB. Others, on the
other hand, have computed cell averages (for example, average wage by region, sex and edu-
cation)
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
.
 (
Knight, Lina, & Gunatilaka
,
 2009
)
 the authors of the study titled
"Investigation on the subjective well-being and its determinants in rural China", introduced
different forms of income comparison, in time and space. Unlike other studies, they asked re-
spondents to compare their household income with the household income of other families in
the village. The effect on happiness was in all cases not only satisitically signicant but also
powerful and monotonic. Having a much above-average income increased happiness by 0.22,
and having an above-average income increased happiness by 0.11. Having an income below
the average diminished the score by 0.27 and much below average by 0.84. In particular, it
is the poor of the village who suffers as a result of making intra-village comparisons. Given
that household income per capita was controlled, and that the villages differed greatly in their
19
Figure 2.3: Life satisfaction and income in East Germany, 1991-2001
Source:
(
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
average income, these results imply an effect of relative income rather than absolute income on
the SWB.
In terms of adaptation, people get used to their circumstances. Thus, income will only have
a transitory effect. People tend to feel a reduction in the emotional intensity of favourable or
unfavourable circumstances. Once a certain time has passed they regain their basic hedonic
level after temporary ups and downs of happiness. In the case of adaptation
2
, the reference
point for individuals is their past income. There is a large body of literature in psychology that
addresses the issue of adaptation in different areas of life, however little research has focused
on income adaptation. Perhaps the most famous article written on this topic was by Brickman
et al.(1978), who used small sample of lottery winners ( n = 22), and showed that this group
with their positive income shock did not have signicantly higher life satisfaction than the con-
trol group
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
. The explanation proposed for this phenomenon is that winning
money opens up new pleasures but also makes existing pleasures less enjoyable. Form the ha-
bituation perspective, winners get used to a new standard of living.
 (
Di Tella, Haisken-De New,
& MacCulloch
,
 2010
)
 used individual-level panel data on happiness from households living in
Germany between 1984 and 2000. Their objective was to identify whether income and status
have long-lasting historical impacts on happiness or whether these dissipate over time. They
ran series of regression specications that include happiness as the dependent variable, and in-
come and status as the two main explanatory variables. With respect to income adaptation, they
measured it by cumulating the effects of the previous 4 years' income on current happiness.
2
People may also have aspirations with which they compare their current income. In this case the reference
point will be their aspired income.
20
Figure 2.4: The relationship between income and happiness at the individual and the aggregate
level
Source:
(
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
They found that the effect of current income on current happiness is 0.23. The effect of income
from other years is -0.04, -0.07, -0.06 and 0.02 from the rst year to the 4th year (the last year)
respectively. The magnitude of the adaptation of -0.15 was calculated by summing the effects
of old incomes. As a result of the initial income impact, 65.2% is lost over the next four years,
leaving a long-term effect of only 0.08.
Another important aspect which could affect SWB is the individuals' aspirations. For a given
income level, having high aspirations and expectations could have a negative effect on SWB.
Aspirations themselves seem to be partly motivated by past income, which implies an adapta-
tion to higher income levels. The importance of aspirations reinforces the conclusions that the
perception of the nancial situation has a greater predictive power than the real income. These
results imply that additional income for those who are not at low income levels is unlikely to
increase SWB in the long run if the additional income is used to raise expectations
 (
Dolan et
al.
,
 2008
)
.
Finally, it can be said that people either adapt to their circumstances and hence end up no
more satised than they were before, or they raise their nancial aspirations which will make
them feel less satised with their increase in income
 (
Lamu & Olsen
,
 2016
)
.
21
2.3 The effect of unemployment on SWB
Unemployment has drawn economists' attention as much as (if not more than) income in their
search for the SWB's determinants. Whatever method of measurement is used in research, there
is little doubt that unemployment causes deterioration in individual's well-being. Research that
treat life satisfaction as a continuous variable tend to nd that the unemployed have scores 5 to
15% lower than those who are employed
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
. In his article
 (
Lelkes
,
 2006
)
 used
European data and after controlling for several variables such as income, labor market, housing,
and health, he found that unemployment reduces the probability of high life satisfaction (8/10 )
by 19%, and overall happiness by 15%. Having a job seems to be an essential accomplishment
for people. In other words, there is no situation where an unemployed person has better levels of
subjective well-being than an employed person
 (
Van der Meer
,
 2014
)
. This nding is validated
across countries, time period and data sources. Causality was also validated using longitudinal
panel data. Unobservable individual heterogeneity have been shown to have no effect on the
inuence of unemployment on individual well-being. More importantly, unemployment causes
lower personal well-being not only through the fall of income, but also through the loss of psy-
chological benets associated with work. In other words, having a job is a source of prestige
and social recognition, providing self-respect and self-worth, apart from having a certain struc-
ture of the day, keeping a sense of purpose, and creating opportunities for social interaction
(
Shields & Price
,
 2005
)
. Men are found to be more affected than women in the case of unem-
ployment. Married men who are responsible for supporting their families report greater mental
distress from becoming unemployed compared to women
 (
Van der Meer
,
 2014
)
. Using a xed
effects model, Wildma and Jones (2002) found that the negative coefcient of unemployment
falls by 1.979 points to 0.989 for men, once satisfaction with nancial position and expectations
of future nancial position were controlled
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
. Other differences in the impact
of unemployment can be cited apart from gender differences. For example, the middle aged are
found to suffer more than the young or the old. Those with high levels of education suffer more
than others in Britain. The same is true for those with right wing political leanings in the US
(
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
.
In his article
 (
Clark
,
 2003
)
 found that unemployment and employment have the same effect
on well-being in regions with an unemployment rate of 24%. In contrast, the effect of unem-
ployment is 2.5 times higher in the data's lowest unemployment region (4%) than in the highest
unemployment region (16%). This means that people compare themselves to others in their
professional situation, taking unemployment as a reference or a social norm. If the person is
in a region with a high unemployment rate, her individual well-being will not be affected as
much as someone who is unemployed where most people are employed. This reinforces the
idea that unemployment does not only affect the nancial side of people's lives, but their social
status also. Individuals tend to evaluate their own situation relative to other persons. For most
22
persons, unemployment lowers their happiness less if they are not alone in their fate. When
unemployment is seen to hit many persons one knows or hears about, both the psychic and the
social effects are mitigated. Self-esteem is better preserved because it seems that being out of
a job is less one's own fault and more due to general developments in the economy.
 (
Frey &
Stutzer
,
 2002
)
.
 (
Clark
,
 2003
)
 also found that people with unemployed partners experience less
well-being, whereas people who are unemployed benet from having a partner who is work-
ing. The same result is observed if other family members are unemployed. The well-being
of the working person is negatively affected by the presence of unemployed family members.
However, the welfare of the unemployed person is positively affected if another family member
becomes unemployed. This does not exclude or negate the negative effect of unemployment on
the person experiencing it (one's own unemployment still reduces one's well-being, even if all
other adults in the household are unemployed).
At the macroeconomic level, people can be unhappy with unemployment even if they are not
affected. They may be sad for the fate of people who are unemployed, they may also be wor-
ried about the possibility of becoming unemployed themselves in the future, they may also feel
repercussions on the economy and society as a whole, they may dislike the increase in unem-
ployment contributions and taxes that may occur in the future, they may fear that crime and
social tensions will increase. In a study of 12 European countries in the period 1975-1991 (Di
Tella, MacCulloch, and Oswald 2001), found that a percentage point increase in the general
unemployment from 9% to 10% reduces stated life satisfaction by 0.028 units on the four scale-
point scale applied. The small rise in the unemployment is equivalent to shifting more than 2%
of the population downward from one life satisfaction category to another, keeping all other
inuences constant
 (
Frey & Stutzer
,
 2002
)
.
2.4 The effect of social relationships on SWB
There is growing evidence that social relationships are crucial to people's health and well-being.
Social capital at the individual level can be dened as "the social skills and networks that enable
an individual to access and/or mobilise the resources embodied in the social structure through
targeted actions"
 (
Lamu & Olsen
,
 2016
)
. Social relationships have the power to inuence iden-
tity and therefore are essential for the maintenance of mental health. Baumeister and Leary
(1995) argued that the need to belong and to have close social relationships is a fundamental
human motivation. The quality of social relationships has direct implications for individuals'
health and well-being
 (
Gleibs, Morton, Rabinovich, Haslam, & Helliwell
,
 2013
)
. In their article
(
Lamu & Olsen
,
 2016
)
 conducted a research based on a cross-sectional data set of 7933 peo-
ple from 6 developed countries to explain the relationship between income, health and social
23
relationships with SWB using the multiple-item satisfaction with life scale measure
3
proposed
by Diener et al.(1985). Social relations were measured by a composite score based on four
questions from the assessment of quality of life instrument. Two questions consider the extent
of enjoyment and satisfaction with one's close relationships, and two questions evaluate one's
feelings with respect to isolation and exclusion. Among the main independent variables, social
relationships show the strongest effect on SWB. They explain alone almost half of the variation
in SWB. The researchers also studied the effect of the three independent variables on different
levels of well-being and found that the coefcients change according to each level. However,
the coefcient of social relationships is more stable across the SWB distribution, with a slightly
stronger effect at lower level. The authors explain the effect of social relationships on SWB by
the fact that social interactions offer the opportunity for self-realization and fullment and that
takes place through shared identities such as families and communities, which will play a role in
strengthening subjective well-being. The researchers also found that living with a partner would
increase SWB by at least 4% more than living alone. Furthermore, there is evidence that the
level of SWB associated with being an unmarried cohabitant depends on the degree of stabil-
ity of the relationship. As opposed to unstable partnerships, stable partnerships are associated
with similar levels of SWB as married partnerships. Therefore, the data suggest that objective
circumstances (in this case marriage) do not always have direct effects on well-being and that it
is important to know how these experiences are perceived
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
.
2.5 The effect of Health on SWB
Studies have consistently found a strong relationship between health and happiness (reported
well-being). Indeed, the relationship between health and happiness is statistically more robust
than between happiness and income. Good health is linked to high levels of well-being, and
health shocks such as serious illnesses or disabilities have negative and often lasting effects on
people's well-being. At the same time many studies demonstrated that happy people have better
health, so the causal link seems to work both ways
 (
Graham
,
 2008
)
. However the effect size of
health is substantial, suggesting that even taking into account the effect of well-being on health,
health is still impacting on SWB
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
. This reverse causality can be explained by
the effect of personality traits and other unobservable variables that are related to better health
and higher happiness
 (
Graham
,
 2008
)
. The positive relationship between health and happiness
tends to be stronger for psychological health than for physical health. Although some serious
illnesses and disabilities have a strong negative impact on happiness, people who are subject
to these illnesses often adapt to their situations and change their expectations for health status
downward over time and return at least partly to their initial level of happiness. This is due to
the fact that they change their reference group to groups that have the same illness or disability
3
SWLS is designed to measure global cognitive judgements of satisfaction with one's life.
24
as them
 (
Graham
,
 2008
)
.
The same Easterlin paradox observed between well-being and income has also been observed
between health (which is strongly correlated with happiness) and income. Angus Deaton found
that Kenyans (82%) are more satised with their health than Americans (81%). The United
States is ranked 81 out of 115 countries in the public condence in the health system ranking
below India, Malawi and Sierra Leone. Once a certain level of health and longevity standards
are assured, there is no longer a cross-country relationship between health and happiness. How-
ever, within countries healthy people are happier than others
 (
Graham
,
 2008
)
.
In a study conducted by
 (
Graham, Higuera, & Lora
,
 2011
)
 they used a data set of 18 Latin Amer-
ican countries to study the relationship between health conditions (the EQ5D health measure
which is based on self-reports and captures 5 dimensions of physical and mental health namely:
mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression) and (health and
life satisfaction). In other words, their research question was how individuals' health status as
measured by the EQ5D relates to more subjective assessments of life and health satisfaction.
They found a strong correlation between the EQ5D score and subjective health status and life
satisfaction. The negative effects of extreme self-care and mobility conditions on both depen-
dent variables disappear once personal optimism is controlled
4
. People tend to adapt less to
the unpredictability of certain health conditions than they are to the unpleasant certainty of oth-
ers. The well-being of paraplegics for example, generally adapt to pre-accident levels, whereas
many epileptics face a lifetime of uncertainty about the timing of seizures. These negative ef-
fects on quality of life and adaptation to uncertainty become more difcult as time goes on. The
authors then interacted the variables (age, gender and income) with the 5 variables of the EQ5D
measure, and found that age increases anxiety, income reduces the effects of extreme pain on
life satisfaction, but increases difculties in self-care. Finally, gender reduces mobility and anx-
iety problems: men seem to experience more negative effects of mobility problems than women,
while women suffer more from anxiety. The authors also examined the effect of the reference
group's health on life satisfaction. They found that unlike income, comparative health effects
could have positive effects on life satisfaction because people tend to improve their health status
when they see that their peers are healthy beside the fact that they enjoy seeing the others being
healthy.
4
In the absence of panel data, which allows for the inclusion of person xed effects, they measure personal
optimism as the tendency of the individual to respond afrmatively to a number of satisfaction questions in the
Gallup survey.
25
2.6 Other Factors
In addition to the determinants outlined above, researchers have looked at many other factors
that may inuence subjective well-being. In the context of social relationships, trust is found
to have an effect on people's subjective well-being.
 (
Helliwell
,
 2006
)
 found that trust in most
other people is associated with higher levels of life satisfaction. Other studies have shown that
political orientations have different impacts on social and economic circumstances through in-
teraction effects. For example, being unemployed has a more negative effect on the well-being
of people who consider themselves right wingers in the United States. On the other hand, in-
equality was worse in terms of life satisfaction for people who consider themselves left wingers
in Europe
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
, meaning that The ndings on political orientations also suggest
that the impact of external circumstances is dependent on individuals' perceptions and attitudes
towards those circumstances. Religion also plays a role in the levels of individuals' well-being,
based on the idea that beliefs affect SWB,
 (
Helliwell
,
 2006
)
 found that belief in God was as-
sociated with high levels of life satisfaction. However, there is a tendency to nd differences
in SWB among population groups of the same religion, suggesting that people use religion or
spirituality in different ways to cope with life's difculties. In their article
 (
Johnson & Krueger
,
2006
)
 used a nation wide sample of 719 twin peers from the National survey of mid-life de-
velopment in the United states, to demonstrate that the perception of nancial status and the
perception of control over life completely mediated the association between nancial resources
and life satisfaction. Their analysis showed that objective indicators of environmental circum-
stances such as income and assets have very important psychological aspects. In other words,
a person's annual salary of say $50,000 can have very different effects on life satisfaction than
on another person's life satisfaction with the same salary. There are people who are materi-
alistic, so their income will have an important impact on their life satisfaction because it will
be the means that will allow them to satisfy their needs and desires. The greater the material
desires are, the more material resources will be required for their attainment. If the gap between
desires and nancial situation is large, people who tend to be materialistic will perceive their
nancial situation as poor even if they earn a good living, which could have an negative impact
on their life satisfaction.
 (
Hayo & Seifert
,
 2003
)
 conducted an ordered logit model study of
Eastern European countries from 1991 to 1995 in order to identify the determinants of subjec-
tive economic well-being. Based on the hypothesis that individuals living in the countries in
transition will compare their current conditions with the former socialist system, people will
compare their subjective economic well-being over time and classify themselves as winners or
losers depending on the transformation of the process. They have found that people take their
expectations of the future into account when judging their actual economic SWB. The more op-
timistic the respondents were about the future, the higher was their current subjective economic
well-being. In behavioral terms, this means that a seemingly unsatisfactory economic situation
can become bearable if the respondent believes that the situation will improve in the future.
26
2.7 Discussion
According to the different researches done on subjective well-being in the elds of psychology
and economics, it can be noticed that the results (the coefcients, their magnitude and signi-
cance) change according to the research method and the hypotheses adopted for each research
question, which amounts to integrating different control variables, giving sometimes heteroge-
neous results. In their review of research done on SWB or Happiness to study the robustness of
the ndings,
 (
Ferrer-i Carbonell & Frijters
,
 2004
)
 found that psychologists interpret happiness
responses as cardinal, in other words the difference between a level of happiness between 4
and 5 is the same as between 8 and 9 for all individuals. In economics, cardinality is viewed
with suspicion. It is assumed that the answers on happiness can be interpreted only ordinally.
Thus, the relative difference between answers cannot be known. The advantage of the cardi-
nality hypothesis is that changes in happiness can be associated with changes in the variable(s)
of interest. This means that any unobservable time-invariant effect disappears in the linear
specication, which is why there are many articles in psychology that use econometric mod-
els with individual xed effects. Economists however, consider happiness or SWB as a latent
variable, and use latent variable models. In addition to the nature of the dependent variable
(cardinal/ordinal) the models chosen are based on the nature of the statistical assumptions made
by the researchers. These assumptions are based on the existence and effects of unobserved
factors in the available data set. Two statistical hypotheses can be cited that show the reason for
using different statistical models:
S 1 : There are time-varying unobserved factors that are related to the observable variables
in an unknown way, this hypothesis is often raised in economic theory. People often make
choices that are dependent on certain constraints and expectations. Anything that inuences life
satisfaction and can inuence expectations and constraints will also inuence decision making.
Under S1 causal inferences cannot be made
 (
Ferrer-i Carbonell & Frijters
,
 2004
)
.
S2: There are time-invariant unobserved factors that are related to the initial level of observable
factors. The unobserved factors can inuence the level of other variables but not the change in
these variables. A famous example of this kind of xed unobserved factors in economic analy-
sis are personality traits
 (
Ferrer-i Carbonell & Frijters
,
 2004
)
.
(
Ferrer-i Carbonell & Frijters
,
 2004
)
 have used the xed effect ordered logit model, combining
the ordinality characteristic of economic models with the xed effects characteristics often used
by psychologists. They found that assuming the cardinality or ordinality of responses on over-
all satisfaction is relatively unimportant to the results. What matters with respect to estimates
is how to take into account time-invariant (variant) unobserved factors. Comparing the results
of e.g. income between the xed effect ordered logit model and the ordered logit model often
27
used by economists, it is found that the effect of income on general satisfaction falls by 2/3
(when allowing for xed unobserved factors). The variable "having children" had a non signif-
icant positive effect on general satisfaction, contrary to its negative effect in the model without
xed effects. Therefore, it can be said that other variables that have been the subject of interest
by other researchers may have different effects once the individual xed effects are taken into
account.
2.8 Conclusion
According to the studies brought to our knowledge, different results arise depending on the
variable of interest as well as the method or model used for the data analysis. The unobservable
time-invariant variables seem to affect the coefcients and their magnitude if they are not taken
into account. Other aspects also seem to mediate the relationship between objective factors and
SWB. People do not use their absolute income when they answer questions about their SWB,
they compare their income to others (relative income), which creates the feeling of satisfaction
or dissatisfaction. This comparison can be done in relation to old situations as well, or in relation
to the person's aspirations. Adaptation and aspiration also mediate the relationship between
income and subjective well-being. Once people adapt to their new income, they return to their
old SWB level. Aspiration on the other hand, pushes people to have new desires that are above
their current income, which in some cases will prevent them form not keeping the satisfaction
of their situation despite the increase in income. Certain psychological characteristics also play
a substantial role in determining SWB. People perceive circumstances differently, one can nd
individuals with average or precarious nancial situations but who feel more satised with their
lives and people who have a good nancial situation but do not feel satised. Optimism and
hope about future events also have an inuence on individuals' SWB. Having the perception of
control over one's life can help people limit the impact of external events over their life. These
variables, whether they are related to personality traits (time -invariant unobservable variables)
or psychological characteristics (time - variant un/observable variables) which effects cannot be
accurately identied yet, seem to inuence people's SWB levels, and above all might mediate
the impact of objective circumstances on life satisfaction. In the next chapter four psychological
variables, will be presented that might affect considerably SWB.
28
Chapter 3
Psychological Capital
3.1 Introduction
To be happy does not necessarily mean that the person has a purpose in life. One can nd people
who are happy, but who do not have goals in life (or do not function effectively) and do not seek
fullment
1
. Also one can nd people who are successful in their lives in many areas, but who do
not necessarily feel joy in their lives. In addition to feeling good, being satised with one's own
life in a holistic way includes the aspect of positive functioning. Ryff (1995) denes well-being
as "the striving for perfection that represents the realization of one's true potential"
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
.
A life that is meant to be lived well, should reect: autonomy, personal growth, self-acceptance,
purpose in life, environmental mastery and positive relations with others
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
. In other
words, it can be said that well-being has two interconnected dimensions, which inuence each
other: the hedonic aspect which concerns pleasure and happiness and focuses on the balance
between positive and negative affects, and the eudaimonic aspect which is characterized by the
search for the actualization of human potential and the realization of one's own nature. The
focus here is more on what the person is doing or thinking than on her feelings. In practice one
can feel joy while pursuing challenging activities, and the pursuit of goals that are meaningful to
oneself can offer a source of emotional satisfaction
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
. In this chapter, Psychological
capital which contains four attributes namely: Personal strivings, self-efcacy, optimism, and
emotional intelligence, will be presented as a potential predictor of 40% of people's SWB.
3.2 Predictors of well-being
Researchers have studied a multitude of variables and processes that could predict and pro-
mote well-being. Three major categories emerge from this research: a) demographic variables,
b) personality, emotions, and biological perspectives, and c) cognitive, behavioral, and social-
relational variables. Several studies have shown that demographic variables such as income
explain only a small portion of the variance in well-being, ranging from 10 to 15%
 (
Sheldon &
Lyubomirsky
,
 2007
)
. Variables of a biological nature, specically genes, have been shown to
explain between 40 and 70% of the variations in well-being, with the most common gure being
around 50%. In other words, there are people who are born with a predisposition for optimism
and joy, while others are born with a predisposition for fearfulness, pessimism and depression
(
Sheldon & Lyubomirsky
,
 2007
)
.
Given the results presented by research on genetic variables in the eld of well-being, one
might think that some people are born to be happy and live happily, while others are con-
demned to spend a sad life. This conclusion is not as simple and denitive as that, because
there are reasons to believe that well-being can be inuenced and even improved throughout
1
Those with thought disorders or diminished reality-testing capacities (e.g., schizophrenics, manic states of
bipolar disorder)
30
a person's life. Two reasons can be cited that support this statement. The rst reason is that
there are motivational and attitudinal factors that are related to well-being and that are likely
to be voluntarily controlled. Examples of motivational factors include the successful pursuit
of life goals that are intrinsic to the content, consistent with the person's interests, motivations
and values
 (
Lyubomirsky, Sheldon, & Schkade
,
 2005
)
. Concerning the attitudinal aspect, one
can nd for example: the tendency to take an optimistic perspective regarding life situations,
to avoid social comparison and the tendency to feel a sense of efciency regarding one's life
(
Lyubomirsky et al.
,
 2005
)
. The second reason is that research has shown that older people tend
to be happier than younger people. According to the socio-emotional selectivity theory
2
, older
people learn to structure their lives and pursue goals that maximize positive emotions. In their
article "Getting older, getting better? Personal strivings and psychological maturity across the
life span."
 (
Sheldon & Kasser
,
 2001
)
 found that age-related increases in well-being were partly
mediated by volitional changes, including older people's ability to select more enjoyable and
self-appropriate goals. Although some personality traits are seen to be stable over time, people
are able through voluntary action and personal maturity, to pursue goals that give them greater
satisfaction and positive emotions. Another argument that supports the idea that genes are not
necessarily destiny is the fact that they seem to inuence happiness indirectly, by inuencing
the kind of experiences or environment a person seeks to have
 (
Lyubomirsky et al.
,
 2005
)
. As
mentioned in the previous chapter, the effect of demographic factors is partly mediated by social
comparison and adaptation. People feel dissatised because they compare what they have with
other people who earn more than they do, or because they get used to their new state and return
to their basic level of well-being.
It is clear that the perception of the current state affects
people's judgement of their well-being
.
Given that the effect of demographic variables, personality and biological perspectives account
for about 60% of the variance in well-being, and that they can be mediated by other cognitive,
behavioural, motivational or emotional factors, the rest of this chapter will be dedicated to the
search of these latter factors since they account for 40% of the variance in well-being, starting
from the principle that they are malleable, can be learned and represent an element of control
for people over the course of their lives and their ability to cope with difculties.
2
Developed by Stanford psychologist Laura L. Carstensen, is a life-span theory of motivation. The theory
maintains that as time horizons shrink, as they typically do with age, people become increasingly selective, invest-
ing greater resources in emotionally meaningful goals and activities. According to the theory, motivational shifts
also inuence cognitive processing. Ageing is associated with a relative preference for positive over negative in-
formation. This selective narrowing of social interaction maximizes positive emotional experiences and minimizes
emotional risks as individuals become older. According to this theory, older adults systematically hone their social
networks so that available social partners satisfy their emotional needs
31
3.3 Attributes of psychological capital
In this section, some variables will be presented, that could considerably affect well-being. The
aim is not to be denitive about them
3
, but to focus on what people can do outside of their
genetic predispositions and the demographic circumstances around them, to feel well. In other
words, what are the actions, reections and attitudes to adopt in order to improve or acquire
higher levels of well-being. This leads us to ask the following questions:
1) What can we do to give sense to our lives?
2) How should we perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities ?
3) How should we manage our feelings and others' feelings?
3.3.1 Personal striving: What can we do to give meaning to our lives?
Several theories on SWB are telic in nature, proposing that the satisfaction of needs, goals and
desires are linked to the individuals' well-being. Goals refer to people's determination to pro-
duce a particular outcome or achieve a particular level of performance. They are "typically
conceived as consciously articulated, personally important objectives that individuals pursue
in their daily lives"
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
. Individuals will nd their lives meaningful when they have
objectives congruent with their inner selves and they are committed to realizing them, thus
reaching a successful self-actualization and the extension of their personalities. People's behav-
iors and emotions can be understood through the examination of personal striving. This can be
done by observing what they try to do or avoid in different areas of their lives, and how well
they manage to do it. Aside from their contribution to giving meaning to life, goals can be a
barometer of how people are affected. People react positively when they progress towards the
goal, and negatively when they do not
 (
Klug & Maier
,
 2015
)
.
In a study conducted by
 (
Emmons
,
 1986
)
, he examined the relationship between the charac-
teristics of striving goals (e.g., importance, past attainment, effort) and SWB's components.
Apart from coming to the conclusion that personal striving is a useful heuristic device for un-
derstanding individual differences in SWB, the additional following conclusions can be drawn
from this paper:
1) Positive affect was most strongly associated with striving value, past fullment, and degree
of effort that striving requires but not with probability of success.
2) Negative Affect however, was strongly correlated with lowered perceived probability of suc-
cess, low instrumentality
4
(between-striving conict), and striving ambivalence (within-striving
conict) meaning that individuals who experience much negative affect were characterized by
3
Other variables can be integrated under the umbrella of the psychological capital. we are going to propose the
ones we consider the most adequate for our research.
4
The question related to instrumentality, "How much does trying to succeed in the striving change your chances
of success in other strivings?"
32
ambivalence regarding their strivings, and possessed conicting striving systems. Which sup-
ports the goal theorists` statement that conict in the system (when two or more goals are
incompatible) is psychologically injurious.
3) The mere presence of important personal strivings, independent of their past attainment, was
associated with higher life satisfaction. Life satisfaction was found to be positively correlated
with striving instrumentality, past fullment, and probability of future success.
In a study conducted by
 (
Sheldon & Houser-Marko
,
 2001
)
 on undergraduate students, they used
a ve wave panel design and path-modelling techniques to test a two cycle model, in which ini-
tial self-concordant motivation predicts good goal attainment during the rst cycle. Attainment
leads then to increased well-being. In other words, they wanted to check if striving for the right
reasons, people may be able to initiate an upward spiral of positive outcomes. They found that
those who began the semester with goals that matched their implicit values and interests were
better able to attain those goals over the semester, which in turn led to increased adjustment (
social- emotional and academic adjustment). Thus, it is not enough to just have personal goals
in order to expect a better level of well-being. In addition to setting them, they should be con-
sistent with the person's implicit interests, values, and growth trends. This is not often obvious,
as it requires accurate self-perceptual abilities and the ability to resist social pressures that may
sometimes push one in inappropriate directions.
Another aspect that would appear to be as important as the coherence between personal ob-
jectives and people's interests and values, are the resources
5
available to achieve this objective.
Indeed, the more the available resources are used to achieve the personal goal, the more people
will show higher levels of well-being. In other terms, "people who have relatively more of their
resources in the areas that are relevant to their personal strivings, have greater SWB. In contrast,
people who have their higher resources in areas that are less relevant to their strivings tend to
have lower SWB"
 (
Diener & Fujita
,
 1995
)
. This suggests that the impact of objective variables
may be partly mediated by personal goals. In other words, resources could increase well-being
indirectly, by enabling individuals to achieve their personal goals
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1999
)
.
The relationship between personal goals and well-being is far from being simple and straightfor-
ward. People can gain well-being by pursuing goals that are important to them and that reect
their values and interests. Progress towards the goal is also seen as an element that promotes
better SWB levels. However, there can be many challenges between setting the goal and achiev-
ing it. People who have more goals nd themselves living with higher levels of life satisfaction
and self-esteem, but at the same time, they experience more anxiety in their lives
 (
Diener et al.
,
1999
)
.
5
Resources are material, social, or personal characteristics that a person possesses that she can use to make
progress toward her personal goals
33
Having consistent goals is proved to be a major factor in preventing people from experiencing
frequent moments of negative affect. Choosing goals congruent with one's personal motives
and values, self determined and pursued for intrinsic reasons, could also be a critical aspect
for SWB. Having goals focused on challenging yet realistic activities, those that are consonant
with but slightly beyond one's current skills, encourage people to acquire new skills and develop
throughout the process. To sum up, one can consider that the pursuit of personal goals when
accompanied by the right conditions as announced above, would allow people to experience
higher and higher SWB, each time the goal is reached or even through the process of progress
towards it. This well-being is reected in the fact that the person has given herself a meaning to
her life, she has gained a kind of structuring of her daily life and a permanent evolution.
3.3.2 Self-efcacy and optimism: How should we perceive ourselves, our
circumstances, and abilities ?
The previous section talked about personal goals that emphasize the role that people can play
as agents of their well-being through giving meaning to their lives and self-actualization. This
means has also been accompanied by conditions for its impact to be effective on the well-being
of individuals. Two other factors play an important role in mediating the impact of personal
goals on SWB, but above all they also have a direct impact on it. On one hand people tend to
pursue actions that they believe they are capable of undertaking. In other words, they perceive
a certain probability of success for the action. This means that much of the achievement of an
action relies primarily on the beliefs held about it. On the other hand, outcome expectancies
allow people to pursue or give up the realisation of the action. In this section self-efcacy will
be proposed as a psychological variable that represents control beliefs, and optimism that can
inuence outcome expectations.
Self-Efcacy
Efcacy is based on Albert Bandura's (1997) extensive research and social cognitive theory. It
can be dened as "One's belief about her ability to mobilize the motivation, cognitive resources,
and courses of action necessary to execute a specic action within a given context"
 (
Youssef-
Morgan & Luthans
,
 2015
)
. Various self-referential processes allow people to function as self-
regulatory agents who actively negotiate with the social world and exercise extensive control
over their personal experiences. Among the self-referential mechanisms of personal agency,
none is more inuential than beliefs of self-efcacy. That is, the belief of individuals in their
ability to exert control over events that affect their lives. Whatever other factors guide and moti-
vate people's efforts to achieve desired outcomes, they are rooted in the fundamental belief that
one has the power to produce effects through one's own actions
 (
Caprara, Steca, Gerbino, Pa-
ciello, & Vecchio
,
 2006
)
. This core belief is the foundation of human motivation, performance
34
accomplishments, and emotional well-being. Unless people believe they can produce desired
effects by their actions, they have little incentive to undertake activities or persevere in the face
of difculties. The motivation behind each of our abilities to engage in activities is based on
the likelihood that we believe our efforts will be successful. Albert Bandura (1997) referred to
the probability that people estimate that they can take on a particular task as an estimate of their
self-efcacy
 (
Luthans, Youssef, Avolio, et al.
,
 2007
)
. The level of self-efcacy motivates people
to welcome challenges and use their strengths and skills to meet those challenges. It encourages
them to pursue their goals and invest the time and hard work that may be necessary to accom-
plish them. When having high probability regarding their ability to undertake an action, people
can stand against obstacles and persevere in hard times
 (
Luthans et al.
,
 2007
)
. Many theories
recognize the importance of control beliefs for personal well-being. Bandura (1997) posits that
self-efcacy beliefs play important roles in the self-regulation of affective states. Effectiveness
beliefs inuence the interpretation of life events as benign or distressing, the actions taken to
overcome environmental barriers, and the cognitive and emotional strategies used to cope with
events
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
.
In a study conducted by
 (
Caprara et al.
,
 2006
)
, with the aim of identifying the personal charac-
teristics that lead to successful adaptation from childhood to adulthood, they tested a structural
model with 664 Italian adolescents that utilises adolescents' beliefs in terms of emotional and
interpersonal self-efcacy as proximal and distal determinants of positive thinking and happi-
ness. Research results have shown that perceived self-efcacy in regulating affect and managing
interpersonal relationships, inuences adolescents' subjective well-being. Concurrently, each
form of adolescents' self-efcacy beliefs exerted a positive inuence on adolescents' positive
thinking, namely on their positive view of themselves and their life, as well as on their positive
expectations about their future. Adolescents' social self-efcacy beliefs also exerted a bene-
cial effect on adolescents' positive thinking measured two years later. Likewise, adolescents'
affective and lial self-efcacy
6
beliefs inuenced concurrently adolescents' happiness. Lon-
gitudinally, adolescents' self-appraised capability to manage communication with their parents
and to cope successfully with stressful family situations exerted a signicant inuence on ado-
lescents' happiness two years later. The results of the study clearly indicate that adolescents'
beliefs about their ability to manage their relationships with peers and parents efcaciously con-
tribute to their subjective well-being, thus conrming the important role of self-efcacy as one
of the main indicators of effective individual functioning.
In addition to its inuence on affects, happiness and the level of self-esteem and self acceptance
(
Caprara et al.
,
 2006
)
, self-efcacy can inuence SWB across life domains, indeed, among the
theories proposed to explain individuals' level of well-being one can nd the bottom-up theory,
6
The capacity to hold an open dialogue with their parents and to inuence their parents' attitudes and behavior
constructively.
35
which states that people overall feel happy or satised with their lives when they are happy or
satised in areas of life that are important to them, such as family, work, and health. If a person
feels efcacious in an area that is important to her, has control and agency over it, and can be
satised with it, it will affect her overall well-being.
Generally speaking, a sense of self-efcacy is considered to inuence different processes of
human functioning: cognitive processes, motivation, affect, and selection on environments
(
Schwarzer
,
 2014
)
. For example, in the health eld, Craig Ewart has studied the role of self-
assessments in the rehabilitation of myocardial infarction patients. Convalescence can be pro-
longed much longer than desired due to unwarranted fear of a new infarction when resuming
normal activities. Improved self-efcacy accelerates progress in physical exercise and improves
mood and well-being. Self-efcacy responses to treadmill exercise tests are better predictors of
activity levels than medical data. Pre-workout self-efcacy levels predict post-workout gains
in perseverance in demanding exercise regimens
 (
Schwarzer
,
 2014
)
. Halsted Holman and Kate
Lorig launched an arthritis self-management program to teach patients how to cope with the
consequences of their chronic disease. They found that patients' perception of their own ef-
fectiveness in coping with their disease was a key factor in the program's outcomes. This was
particularly true for pain and depression. The more patients became self-sufcient during train-
ing, the more they were able to tolerate pain and the less depression was reported. The benecial
effects were maintained even after four years of follow-up
 (
Schwarzer
,
 2014
)
. Bandura's Find-
ings from diverse lines of research have documented the inuential role of self-efcacy beliefs
in various other domains of functioning such as learning, work, sports, social adjustment, and
well-being
 (
Caprara et al.
,
 2006
)
. Thus, self-efcacy presents itself as an effective means to
raise individuals' level of well-being, both through its involvement in the achievement of ob-
jectives, but especially through the possibility of its application in all areas of life, since it is
domain specic.
Optimism
The term expectancies was used to refer to beliefs that desirable outcomes could occur, either
through the efforts of the person or through other factors within the person's control. In the tra-
dition of social learning theorists, Bandura differentiated between expectancies of self-efcacy
(one's belief in one's ability to perform a specic behaviour) and expectancies of outcome
(one's belief that a specic behaviour will produce a desired outcome)
 (
Magaletta & Oliver
,
1999
)
. Most relevant in the present context is the idea that people's actions are greatly inu-
enced by their expectations about the consequences of those actions. People who see desired
outcomes as attainable continue to strive toward them, even when progress becomes difcult
or slow. Alternatively, if outcomes seem sufciently unattainable, people withdraw their effort
and disengage themselves from the goals that they have set even if the consequences of such
disengagement are at times severe.
 (
Scheier & Carver
,
 1992
)
.
36
A large body of research has shown that expectations about the future impact well-being in
the present. People who are dispositionally optimistic, that is they have generally positive ex-
pectancies for the future, experience less stress across a wide range of situations, including
stressful situations. Dispositional optimism is associated with better psychological adjustments
to stressors. From general events such as entering university to extreme events such as expe-
riencing trauma
 (
Nes & Segerstrom
,
 2006
)
. A direct inuence of optimism or pessimism is
noticeable in people's feelings when they encounter problems. When facing difculties peo-
ple's emotions vary between enthusiasm and desire and between anger, anxiety or depression.
The balance in feelings is related to differences in optimism. Optimists expect good outcomes,
even when things are hard. This yields relatively positive mix of feelings. Pessimists expect
bad outcomes, which yields more negative feelings
 (
Carver, Scheier, & Segerstrom
,
 2010
)
.
One of the important domains in which the relation between optimism and SWB was inves-
tigated, is in the medical context, e.g., coronary artery bypass surgery, breast cancer, or in vitro
fertilization. The results of the research support the idea that optimistic people felt less dis-
tress before their surgery and were more satised with their lives after surgery
 (
Carver et al.
,
2010
)
. Research on the link between optimism and subjective well-being in the medical eld
has focused more on patients' psychological well-being, their ability to cope with the disease
and their ability to get on with their lives after surgery. Another study done by CABS; Scheier
et al. (1989) with coronary artery bypass patients, who were interviewed one day prior to
surgery, 6 to 8 days post-surgery, and 6 months later, showed that optimistic patients reported
lower levels of hostility and depression compared to pessimistic patients. One week after the
surgery optimistic patients reported feeling happy and relieved. They also reported greater sat-
isfaction with the level of medical care and emotional support they received from family and
friends. Finally, the optimistic patients reported a favourable quality of life after 6 months of
the operation, unlike the pessimistic patients. Other ndings related to optimism and subjective
well-being were recorded among the optimistic patients compared to the pessimistic patients 5
years after the intervention, such as reporting that their life is interesting and diversied, free
of pressures and inconveniences and that they are more satised with their social relationships
and work
 (
Scheier & Carver
,
 1992
)
. The idea that optimism is related to lower levels of distress
during difculty is reinforced by another study by
 (
Aspinwall & Taylor
,
 1992
)
 who examined
the impact of optimism, self-esteem, locus of control, and desire for control on psychological
adjustment to college, health, motivation, and academic performance. The study was longitu-
dinal and assessed personality predispositions, positive and negative affect, social support, and
ways of coping, within days of 672 freshmen's arrival at college. Follow-up measures were
obtained 3 months later, and academic performance was assessed 2 years later. Among the
results recorded by the study after the initial control of positive and negative mood, the investi-
gators came to the conclusion that optimism exerted a direct and positive effect on subsequent
37
adjustment to college. In another study conducted by (Scheirer and Caver 1985) with still un-
dergraduates, the subjects who reported being optimistic early in the college semester were less
likely to be bothered by physical symptoms at the end of the semester, than those scoring lower
on the optimism scale, controlling for initial symptoms.
Although optimism and pessimism are classied as personality traits, interventions like cog-
nitive therapies have proven to be effective in helping pessimistic people become more opti-
mistic by helping them adopt more accurate and constructive explanations of events
 (
Forgeard
& Seligman
,
 2012
)
. In addition to cognitive therapies, interventions have been developed that
primarily target children and adolescents, such as the Penn Resiliency Program developed by
Seligman and colleagues to teach adolescents to recognize the connection between thoughts and
feelings, and to adopt more constructive beliefs when faced with difcult situations
 (
Forgeard
& Seligman
,
 2012
)
.
3.3.3 Emotional intelligence: How should we manage our feelings and
others' feelings?
Emotional intelligence (EI) can be dened as "the ability to monitor one's own and others feel-
ings and emotions, to discriminate among them, and to use this information to guide one's
thinking and actions"
 (
Salovey, Bedell, Detweiler, & Mayer
,
 1999
)
. The skills of perceiving,
understanding, using and managing one's own emotions effectively and those of others sum up
the concept of emotional intelligence
 (
Vesely, Saklofske, & Nordstokke
,
 2014
)
. Competence
in the perception of emotions involves the recognition of facial and vocal cues related to the
emotions of others and awareness of one's own emotionally related body states. The skill of
understanding one's own emotions and those of others consists of knowing the causes and con-
sequences of different emotions and the ability to differentiate between them. The use of one's
own emotions can be applied in the context of creativity, for example. Finally, managing one's
own emotions and those of others means regulating them so that they are compatible with the
demands/needs of the situation or the objectives of the individual
 (
Vesely et al.
,
 2014
)
.
According to Daniel Goleman author of the famous book "Emotional Intelligence: Why it Can
Matter More Than IQ", emotional illiteracy is responsible for many social evils including men-
tal illness, crime, and educational failure. Furthermore, people at work often fall short of their
potential through failing to manage their emotions appropriately. Job satisfaction and produc-
tivity are threatened by unnecessary conicts with co-workers, failure to assert one's legitimate
needs, and failure to communicate one's feelings to others
 (
Zeidner, Matthews, & Roberts
,
2012b
)
. Emotional intelligence has been shown to be associated with a low propensity to ex-
perience negative emotions and a higher propensity to experience positive emotions, thereby
contributing to a rich sense of emotional well-being. Being aware of one's own emotions in-
38
creases the likelihood of being able to regulate them, thus demonstrating low levels of distress
and stress related to emotions
 (
Zeidner & Olnick-Shemesh
,
 2010
)
. Furthermore, moods make
it easier to prioritise life's tasks. Emotions draw our attention to stimuli that need to be treated.
Because moods and emotions sometimes arise when there is a mismatch between expectations
and environmental realities, moods draw attention to oneself to possibly clarify the experience
and facilitate adaptive responses to it
 (
Mayer & Salovey
,
 1993
)
. The same authors also found
that happy and sad moods are followed by an inward shift of attention: such a shift seems to
favour cognitive processes and behavioural activities that can maintain a pleasant atmosphere
or relieve the unpleasant one. Finally, emotional individuals may emphasize higher-level pro-
cesses regarding attention to feelings, clarity and discrimination of feelings, and beliefs about
mood-regulating strategies. Individuals who have clear feelings and condence in their ability
to regulate their affect, appear to be able to repair their mood more quickly and effectively after
failure or other disruptive experiences.
Advances in medicine in recent decades have dramatically changed the patterns of the dis-
ease in modern societies. Infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, cholera, and smallpox are
no longer major causes of death in industrial societies. Today the main causes of morbidity
are rather linked to chronic stress, lifestyles as well as unhealthy behaviours linked to health.
Contemporary biopsychosocial models of disease interpret health and disease as an amalgam
of biological, psychological and social factors, with a more recent emphasis on the role of emo-
tions in these processes. The effect of EI does not only stop at physical and mental health. Other
researches suggest that emotionally intelligent people report greater satisfaction in specic con-
texts such as work as well as social well-being and overall quality of life
 (
Zeidner, Matthews,
& Roberts
,
 2012a
)
.
In a research conducted by
 (
Chamorro-Premuzic, Bennett, & Furnham
,
 2007
)
. The researchers
examined the relationship between the big ve personality traits, EI trait and happiness in a
sample of 112 student and non-student participants. They found that EI accounted for 18% of
the variance in happiness over and above the big ve traits. Furthermore, a signicant amount of
shared variance between happiness and the Big Five was explained by the trait EI, which partly
mediated the paths from stability and conscientiousness to happiness, and fully mediated the
link between agreeableness and happiness. It has become obvious that to be successful in life,
it is not enough to be intelligent in the logical and analytical sense. Different non-intellectual
variants can contribute to the performance of individuals and their self-realization. Emotional
intelligence, whether learned or considered as a personality trait, has proven its importance in
various elds, starting from the organizational eld such as leadership positions to more specic
areas such as personal stress management. A good part of our well being is based on our ability
to perceive our emotions, understand them and in a more subtle way use them in our favour.
Training our ability to better manage our emotions will bring us benets on a personal, social
39
and professional level. These are areas that could play a major role in improving our subjective
well-being.
3.4 Conclusion
This chapter presented four psychological variables that could answer the above questions
namely: 1) What can we do to give meaning to our lives? 2) How should we perceive our-
selves, our circumstances, and abilities ? 3) How should we manage our feelings? We propose
personal striving as a way to give meaning to one's life, we assume that when people follow
goals that are coherent with their personal values and interests, they will achieve self-fullment
on the one hand and development on the other hand, because pursuing personal goals should
be accompanied by a degree of challenge and the opportunity to learn new skills. Objectives
alone are not enough to ensure the well-being of individuals. One must ensure that one has a
belief in one's own abilities to carry out the necessary actions that lead to the achievement of
that goal. In addition to these beliefs, individuals need to have the ability to believe in positive
results or outcomes after the action has been completed. Perceived self-efcacy and optimism
are the essential elements for the achievement of a goal in a particular way and for the subjective
well-being of individuals in an overall way. Believing in one's own abilities and the results that
come from one's actions, allows the person to face obstacles, to make more effort and to perse-
vere. In a study done by
 (
Magaletta & Oliver
,
 1999
)
, that examined the relationships between
the components of hope that are will and way, the two constructs of self-efcacy and optimism,
and general well-being. The authors found that self-efcacy accounted for 30% of the variance
in general well-being followed by optimism with 8% variance in WB.
Emotions are an integral part of our life. They are a pillar of subjective well-being (affect).
Having the ability to become aware of their existence, to be able to interpret them, and to use
them in our favour to better understand ourselves and others, could be an essential asset for im-
proving subjective well-being. The concept of emotional intelligence when developed in people
could balance or improve the emotional aspect of subjective well-being, not to mention that it
can have a positive impact on different areas of life such as health in the rst place, work, edu-
cation, etc.
The assumption is that the psychological capital that constitutes the four concepts of personal
strivings, self-efcacy, optimism, and emotional intelligence, could be responsible for 40% of
the variation in SWB in addition to mediating some of the impact of demographic variables and
personality traits. Future studies on the same subject should focus the attention on this construct
in conjunction with SWB. However, it is important to specify the possibility of integrating other
psychological variables into the construct, or even to propose other components. Since the aim
is not to dene categorically the variables included in the Psychological Assets construct, the
ultimate goal of this theoretical analysis is to attract attention on the inuence of time-varying
40
variables such as those proposed in this chapter on SWB, in order to be able to undertake further
research in this area and implement public policies that promote their development in individ-
uals. Following on from this reection, in the next chapter the introduction of psychological
capital into the educational system is analysed.
41
Chapter 4
Psychological Capital in the Educational
System
4.1 Introduction
In the rst chapter, SWB has been dened as having two components. Affective well-being
and cognitive well-being. The rst component consists of having a balance between positive
and negative affect. The second component is a general evaluation of the person's life. This
evaluation can be done in a holistic way, as it can be done by evaluating each specic life do-
main separately. In the latter case there will be several areas of well-being, such as health-WB,
economic-WB, social-WB, psychological-WB, etc. In other words, the SWB can be summa-
rized in the following equation:
S W B
it
=
f
(
Af f ectiv e:W B
it
; C og nitiv e:W B
it
)
(4.1)
S W B
it
=
f
(
E motional :W B
it
; H eal th:W B
it
; S ocial :W B
it
; P sy chol og ical :W B
it
; E conomic:W B
it
)
In each of the areas listed above, individuals need two kinds of knowledge or skills to en-
sure their development. On the one hand, they need technical skills
T S
specic to each do-
main. These skills reect the knowledge acquired on a particular subject. For example, to stay
healthy, individuals need to know what makes them healthier and what is detrimental to their
health. In the social domain for instance, individuals will need to acquire technical skills such
as communication. However, technical skills alone are not sufcient to ensure improvement in
a specic domain of well-being. Take the case of communication, for example. It is possible
to nd a person who has mastered communication skills, but lacks social self-efcacy or does
not believe that by using her skills she will be able to improve her social well-being. Thus, the
technical tool is already available, but there is a lack of a psychological tool to accompany its
use in order to achieve better levels of well-being. In other cases, one can nd people who have
several technical skills but at the same time feel unsatised with their lives. This kind of situa-
tion can be seen in people with a high level of intellectual and logical intelligence. The problem
in this case does not lie in the inability to use one's technical competence, but rather in the fact
that the person needs psychological skills
P K
to manage certain situations or improve certain
areas such as emotional or social well-being. This means that in order to feel good or satised
in life, people need to equip themselves with technical
T S
and psychological
P K
tools. Thus,
S W B
can be written as a function of
T S
and
P K
:
S W B
it
=
f
(
T S
it
; P K
it
)
(4.2)
4.2 Static model of SWB development
Integrating a program that offers psychological support can be done in a exible way via for
example counselling sessions
1
. Counselling is an intervention that children or teenagers can
1
England is one of the countries that adopt programs such as "counselling in schools" to support pupils in
different areas such as mental health, emotional well-being, resilience, development and the pursuit of personal
43
undertake voluntarily if they want to explore, understand and overcome problems in their lives
that may cause them difculty, distress and/or confusion".
 (
for Education
,
 2015
)
.
Parallel to counselling, a more rigorous form of a curriculum can be conceptualised, that focuses
on pupil's technical and psychological skills and mental health. This program which is aimed to
develop positive psychological resources, will consist of assisting children in achieving greater
understanding of themselves and their relationship to their world, to create a greater awareness
and utilisation of their personal resources, to build their resilience, and to support their ability
to address problems and pursue meaningful goals. In other words, a pedagogical subject could
be included, that would aim to teach pupils the accumulation of
P K
(
H
P K ;pub
>
0
).
In order to maximize their current and future
S W B
, one should nd the best combination be-
tween hours dedicated to technical versus psychological learning (
H
T S; pub
,
H
P K ;pub
)
2
.
4.2.1 Optimal time allocation between technical and psychological learn-
ing skills at school
If we assume that SWB is a function of
T S
and
P K
(
4.2
), which means the more they are
accumulated, the higher the level of SWB will be. In other words:
@ S W B
i
@ T S
i
>
0
;
@ S W B
i
@ P K
i
>
0
And if we assume that the development of
T S
and
P K
is a function of schooling hours
spent in learning them:
P K
=
g
(
H
pk
; H
ts
)
and
T S
=
g
0
(
H
p
k ; H
t
s
)
, we can write SWB as a
function of
H
ts
,
H
pk
.
Let us suppose that SWB follows CES function:
S W B
=
f
(
H
ts;pub
; H
pk ;pub
) = [

(
H
ts;pub
)

+ (1


)(
H
pk ;pub
)

]
1

(4.3)
Given that:

: is a parameter which reects the elasticity of substitution between hours dedicated to psy-
chological learning and technical learning.

: is a share parameter that governs the importance of
H
ts
in producing
S W B
.
Let I denote the investment a school makes for the development of pupils' technical and psy-
chological skills. "I" can be viewed as the school budget, which is split between learning hours
goals. Example model:
Place2B
2
Assuming that the state has no control over hours spent on learning
T S
and
P K
at home
(
H
T S;pr iv
; H
P K ;pr iv
).
44
of both
T S
and
P K
:
3
I
=
P
pk
H
pk
+
P
ts
H
ts
(4.4)
P
pk
and
P
ts
denote the unit prices of
H
pk
and
H
ts
respectively.
The objective thus, is to nd the optimal allocation of time between
T S
and
P K
learning under
the budget constraint (
4.4
), in order to insure
S W B
maximisation. To solve this maximisation
problem, we use the Lagrange function:
L
=
S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
) +

[
I

P
pk
H
pk

P
ts
H
ts
]
(4.5)
First order conditions give us:
@
L
@ H
pk
=
@ S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
)
@ H
pk

P
pk
= 0
(4.6)
@
L
@ H
ts
=
@ S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
)
@ H
ts

P
ts
= 0
(4.7)
@
L
@ 
=
I

P
pk
H
pk

P
ts
H
ts
= 0
(4.8)
We use
ln
S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
)
to facilitate the rst order conditions computation:
ln
S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
) =
1

ln[

(
H
ts
)

+ (1


)(
H
pk
)

]
(4.9)
Dividing
 4.6
 over
 4.7
 we get :
@ S W B
(
H
ts
;H
pk
)
@ H
pk
@ S W B
(
H
ts
;H
pk
)
@ H
ts
=
P
pk
P
ts
;
P
pk
P
ts
=
P
(4.10)
Given that:
@ l nS W B
(
H
ts
;H
pk
)
@ H
pk
=
1


(1


)(
H
pk
)


1

(
H
ts
)

+(1


)(
H
pk
)

&
@ l nS W B
(
H
ts
;H
pk
)
@ H
ts
=
1

 
(
H
ts
)


1

(
H
ts
)

+(1


)(
H
pk
)

We can rearrange
 4.10
 as follows:
(1


)
H
pk


1
 H


1
ts
=
P
()
H
pk
= (
1



p
)
1
1


H
ts
;
(
1



p
)
1
1


=

(4.11)
Using
 4.4
 and
 4.11
 we nd
4
:
H

pk
=
I
P
pk
+
P
ts

=
I
P
pk
[1 + (
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
(4.12)
3
For convenience, we will not write the subscript "pub" in the equations, however the hou rs cited are learning
hours spent at school
4
See appendix for the detailed computations
45
H

ts
=
I
P
ts
[1 + (
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


]
(4.13)
Thus, the optimal ratio between the hours dedicated to psychological skills learning in compar-
ison to the technical skills learning is:
H

pk
H

ts
= (
1


P 
)
1
1


=

(4.14)
From
 4.14
 we notice that the optimal ratio between
H
pk
and
H
ts
depends on the relative prices
P
and the parameter

which reects the ability of
H
pk
to compensate
H
ts
decits in producing
T S
and
P K
and thus
S W B
. However, to determine to which extend
H
T S
can be substituted
by
H
P K
, we have to examine the elasticity of substitution between them.
We have :
"
=
d
ln(
H
ts
H
pk
)
d l n
(
S W B
pk
S W B
ts
)
=
d
ln(

)

1
d
ln
P
=
(

1)(
1
1


)
d
[ln(
1



)

l n
P
]
d
ln
P
=
1
1


(4.15)
Thus an increase in the relative prices of 1% will result in an increase in the ratio
H
pk
H
ts
of
"
%
.
We can write
 4.14
 as follows:
H

pk
H

ts
= (
1


P 
)
"
(4.16)
The next step after dening the optimal time allocation by solving the maximisation problem,
and the elasticity of substitution, would be to examine the change of
H

pk
depending on the
change of
P
pk
and
P
ts
. We recall that :
H

pk
=
I
P
pk
[1 + (
P
pk
P
ts
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
(4.17)
We put

1


=
"

1
. The rst derivatives of
H

pk
with respect to
P
pk
and
P
ts
are:
@ H

pk
@ P
pk
=

[1 +
"
(
P
)
"

1
(

1


)
"
]
I
[
P
pk
[1 + (
P
)
"

1
(
1



)
"
]]
2
(4.18)
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
=

[(1

"
)(
P
)
"
(

1


)
"
]
I
[
P
pk
[1 + (
P
)
"

1
(
1



)
"
]]
2
(4.19)
We assume that
"
>
0
. Thus:
@ H

pk
@ P
pk
6
0
. Which means that whatever is the elasticity of
substitution between the hours of psychological skills learning and technical skills learning, the
number of
H

pk
will decrease the more
P
pk
increases.
For
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
we have the following cases:
46
1) If
0
< " <
1
,
1

" >
0
,
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
<
0
: When there is a small elasticity of substitution
between
H

pk
and
H

ts
that means that they are complements, therefore, when
P
ts
increases
H

ts
decreases and so do
H

pk
.
2) If
1
< " <
1 ,
1

" <
0
,
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
>
0
. In this case the elasticity of substitution
between
H

pk
and
H

ts
tends to be high, which means that if
P
ts
increases
H

ts
will be easily
substituted by
H

pk
. If
"
approaches to
1
, there will be perfect substitution between learning
hours dedicated to
T S
and
P K
in producing
S W B
.
3) If
"
= 1
,
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
= 0
. In this case there is an indifference between choosing
H

pk
or
H

pk
in producing
S W B
and
H

pk
will not be affected by the increase of
P
ts
.
The occurrence of the previous cases depends on the nature of the skill learned. For instance, if
we want to teach pupils how to set goals or seek for personal strivings, this skill can be taught at
the same time as learning a technical skill. From being exposed to different subjects, pupils can
discover which subject they feel they lean to (we claim however, that it is not always the case
for all pupils to nd their personal striving easily). Other skills like optimism or emotional in-
telligence are hardly replaced or acquired at the same time as other technical skills. In this case
it can be said that the elasticity of substitution between the hours is close to zero. Therefore,
dedicating a number of hours to the learning of these psychological skills is inevitable. Some
skills such as self-efcacy are needed in the acquisition of technical skills such as math. At
the same time, being good at math helps pupils improve their mathematical self-efcacy. Thus,
there is a mutual inuence between the two skills. To learn to believe in one's abilities with
regard to self-efcacy,
 (
Bandura
,
 1977
)
 identies 4 sources of information, the rst of which is
mastering experiences, which means that each time a person trains in a specic subject, in our
case math, she will acquire mathematical self-efcacy. Thus, extra hours of learning can be of-
fered to pupils who are weak in math, giving them more exercises to solve in order to strengthen
their belief in their mathematical ability. In the same, it is the fact of having acquired mathe-
matical self-efcacy that will help them overcome difculties that arise when learning a new
mathematical subject. Thus, aiming at reinforcing some psychological skills like self-efcacy
from the rst years of schooling is primordial for the acquisition of technical skills in the future.
Because of their different nature, it is difcult to nd psychological skills that can be completely
substituted by other technical ones in producing SWB or vice versa. People can manage get-
ting to some extent to a certain level of SWB, but if they do not use both psychological and
technical skills, they will not reach their optimal SWB level. Skills like emotional intelligence
or optimism will have an important role to play in children's' life as it becomes more complex
with time. Teaching them how to acquire these skills from a young age, will not only help them
at school, but in their lives in general.
47
4.3 Conclusion
The need to integrate psychological skills learning in school is becoming more and more evi-
dent, with all the challenges that individuals face at different stages of their lives. Subjective
well-being depends to a large extent on the mental, psychological and emotional health of indi-
viduals. It is not enough to have a good socio-economic status to be able to say that people feel
good about their lives. Physical and mental health play also a role, as do social relationships.
School systems were designed to enable children to have an intellectual level that will open the
doors to university and later on to a job. However, these same systems have not integrated the
development of the skills we call here psychological skills, which will allow these pupils to give
meaning to their lives by getting to know themselves, to develop goals that will be consistent
with their strengths and be ready to face obstacles when they arise. In this chapter we have pro-
posed a basic model through which our aim was to identify the best allocation of time between
the hours dedicated to the learning of technical and psychological skills in order to maximize
the subjective well-being. Other more sophisticated models can be developed in the same spirit
of integrating the learning of psychological skills into the educational system. Questions such
as: Which skills should we start with? Or which skills should be taught at which level, etc. can
benet from answers based on empirical research.
48
Conclusion
Public policies focus mainly on economic indicators, thereby failing to give importance to an-
other aspect society values, namely individuals' well-being. This is often justied by the fact
that economic indicators are more rigorous, widely available and frequently updated
 (
Diener &
Seligman
,
 2004
)
. With the abundance of products and services especially in modern societies,
people are refocusing their intentions on what is a good life, a life that is enjoyable, meaningful,
engaging and fullling. This quest for satisfaction and joy is justied by the fact that in such so-
cieties, wealth is accompanied by mental and social ills. It is becoming increasingly important
to consider indicators other than economic ones to measure the economic and social prosperity
of societies. More importantly, refocusing the economic analysis on the subjective well-being
helps to give individuals an active role in the society. The more investment is dedicated to their
well-being, the more the emergence of major economic and social problems can be prevented .
In this work the improvement of subjective well-being was proposed through the development
of individuals' psychological capital. Four psychological attributes were chosen to answer the
main questions asked in this thesis namely, personal striving for the question:"What can we
do to give sense to our lives?", self-efcacy and optimism for the question: "How should we
perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities ?" and emotional intelligence for the ques-
tion: "How should we manage our feelings and others feelings?". Among the methods that
can be adopted to achieve this goal, the inclusion of the teaching of psychological capital in
the school system was opted. This approach is supported by the belief that the sooner an indi-
vidual is called to acquire the emotional and cognitive attributes of psychological capital, the
higher will be the return on investment from this learning. The second argument that leads
us to believe that this approach should be adopted, is the fact that it would not be optimal to
leave this task to parents or to personal effort because of differences in the nancial and intel-
lectual capacities. Additionally, when it is adopted as a public policy, the government will call
upon the expertise of various specialists for the implementation of a program that will ensure
the development of psychological skills in a pedagogical way. An optimal time allocation be-
tween hours dedicated to technical and psychological skills learning was proposed as away to
implement psychological capital accumulation in schools. Different cases regarding the time
allocation, were discussed depending on the elasticity of substitution and prices. We came to the
conclusion that there are some psychological skills that could be learned simultaneously with
technical skills, whereas some others should be given a certain amount of time to be learned,
this independently of technical skills learning. According to our knowledge, this work is one of
the few researches that proposes individuals' subjective well-being as an asset to be developed,
in order to ensure social-economic prosperity. More importantly, it proposes the integration of
psychological skills learning in schools. We are convinced that it can open up other perspectives
for empirical research, which will lead to the identication of a public policy oriented primarily
towards the individuals' well-being.
49
References
Aspinwall, L. G., & Taylor, S. E. (1992). Modeling cognitive adaptation: A longitudinal
investigation of the impact of individual differences and coping on college adjustment
and performance.
Journal of personality and social psychology
,
63
(6), 989.
Bandura, A. (1977). Self-efcacy: toward a unifying theory of behavioral change.
Psychologi-
cal review
,
84
(2), 191.
Blanchower, D. G., & Oswald, A. J. (2004). Well-being over time in britain and the usa.
Journal of public economics
,
88
(7-8), 1359Œ1386.
Brunstein, J. C. (1993). Personal goals and subjective well-being: A longitudinal study.
Journal
of personality and social psychology
,
65
(5), 1061.
Caprara, G. V., Steca, P., Gerbino, M., Paciello, M., & Vecchio, G. M. (2006). Looking for
adolescents' well-being: Self-efcacy beliefs as determinants of positive thinking and
happiness.
Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences
,
15
(1), 30Œ43.
Carver, C. S., Scheier, M. F., & Segerstrom, S. C. (2010). Optimism.
Clinical psychology
review
,
30
(7), 879Œ889.
Chamorro-Premuzic, T., Bennett, E., & Furnham, A. (2007). The happy personality: Media-
tional role of trait emotional intelligence.
Personality and individual differences
,
42
(8),
1633Œ1639.
Clark, A. E. (2003). Unemployment as a social norm: Psychological evidence from panel data.
Journal of labor economics
,
21
(2), 323Œ351.
Clark, A. E., Frijters, P., & Shields, M. A. (2008). Relative income, happiness, and utility: An
explanation for the easterlin paradox and other puzzles.
Journal of Economic literature
,
46
(1), 95Œ144.
Diener, E. (2006). Guidelines for national indicators of subjective well-being and ill-being. In
Journal of happiness studies: An interdisciplinary forum on subjective well-being.
Diener, E. (2012). New ndings and future directions for subjective well-being research.
Amer-
ican psychologist
,
67
(8), 590.
Diener, E., & Fujita, F. (1995). Resources, personal strivings, and subjective well-being:
a nomothetic and idiographic approach.
Journal of personality and social psychology
,
68
(5), 926.
Diener, E., Lucas, R., Helliwell, J. F., Helliwell, J., Schimmack, U., et al. (2009).
Well-being
for public policy
. Series in Positive Psychology.
Diener, E., Oishi, S., & Lucas, R. E. (2003). Personality, culture, and subjective well-being:
Emotional and cognitive evaluations of life.
Annual review of psychology
,
54
(1), 403Œ
425.
Diener, E., & Ryan, K. (2009). Subjective well-being: A general overview.
South African
journal of psychology
,
39
(4), 391Œ406.
Diener, E., & Seligman, M. E. (2004). Beyond money: Toward an economy of well-being.
50
Psychological science in the public interest
,
5
(1), 1Œ31.
Diener, E., Suh, E., & Oishi, S. (1997). Recent ndings on subjective well-being.
Indian
journal of clinical psychology
,
24
, 25Œ41.
Diener, E., Suh, E. M., Lucas, R. E., & Smith, H. L. (1999). Subjective well-being: Three
decades of progress.
Psychological bulletin
,
125
(2), 276.
Di Tella, R., Haisken-De New, J., & MacCulloch, R. (2010). Happiness adaptation to income
and to status in an individual panel.
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization
,
76
(3), 834Œ852.
Dolan, P., Peasgood, T., & White, M. (2008). Do we really know what makes us happy? a
review of the economic literature on the factors associated with subjective well-being.
Journal of economic psychology
,
29
(1), 94Œ122.
Ed, D. (1984). Subjective well-being (1984).
Psychological Bulletin
,
95
(3).
Eid, M., & Larsen, R. J. (2008).
The science of subjective well-being
. Guilford Press.
Emmons, R. A. (1986). Personal strivings: An approach to personality and subjective well-
being.
Journal of Personality and Social psychology
,
51
(5), 1058.
Ferrer-i Carbonell, A., & Frijters, P. (2004). How important is methodology for the estimates
of the determinants of happiness?
The Economic Journal
,
114
(497), 641Œ659.
for Education, D. (2015). Counselling in schools: A blueprint for the future.
Forgeard, M., & Seligman, M. (2012). Seeing the glass half full: A review of the causes and
consequences of optimism.
Pratiques psychologiques
,
18
(2), 107Œ120.
Frey, B. S., & Stutzer, A. (2002). What can economists learn from happiness research?
Journal
of Economic literature
,
40
(2), 402Œ435.
Gleibs, I. H., Morton, T. A., Rabinovich, A., Haslam, S. A., & Helliwell, J. F. (2013). Un-
packing the hedonic paradox: A dynamic analysis of the relationships between nancial
capital, social capital and life satisfaction.
British Journal of Social Psychology
,
52
(1),
25Œ43.
Graham, C. (2008). Happiness and health: LessonsŠand questionsŠfor public policy.
Health
affairs
,
27
(1), 72Œ87.
Graham, C., Higuera, L., & Lora, E. (2011). Which health conditions cause the most unhappi-
ness?
Health economics
,
20
(12), 1431Œ1447.
Hayo, B., & Seifert, W. (2003). Subjective economic well-being in eastern europe.
Journal of
economic psychology
,
24
(3), 329Œ348.
Helliwell, J. F. (2006). Well-being, social capital and public policy: what's new?
The economic
journal
,
116
(510), C34ŒC45.
Johnson, W., & Krueger, R. F. (2006). How money buys happiness: genetic and environ-
mental processes linking nances and life satisfaction.
Journal of personality and social
psychology
,
90
(4), 680.
Kahneman, D., & Krueger, A. B. (2006). Developments in the measurement of subjective
well-being.
Journal of Economic perspectives
,
20
(1), 3Œ24.
51
Klug, H. J., & Maier, G. W. (2015). Linking goal progress and subjective well-being: A
meta-analysis.
Journal of Happiness Studies
,
16
(1), 37Œ65.
Knight, J., Lina, S., & Gunatilaka, R. (2009). Subjective well-being and its determinants in
rural china.
China economic review
,
20
(4), 635Œ649.
Lamu, A. N., & Olsen, J. A. (2016). The relative importance of health, income and social
relations for subjective well-being: An integrative analysis.
Social Science & Medicine
,
152
, 176Œ185.
Larsen, R. J., & Eid, M. (2008). Ed diener and the science of subjective well-being.
The science
of subjective well-being
, 1Œ13.
Lelkes, O. (2006). Knowing what is good for you: Empirical analysis of personal preferences
and the ﬁobjective goodﬂ.
The Journal of Socio-Economics
,
35
(2), 285Œ307.
Lent, R. W. (2004). Toward a unifying theoretical and practical perspective on well-being and
psychosocial adjustment.
Journal of Counseling Psychology
,
51
(4), 482.
Luthans, F., Youssef, C. M., Avolio, B. J., et al. (2007). Psychological capital: Developing the
human competitive edge.
Lyubomirsky, S. (2001). Why are some people happier than others? the role of cognitive and
motivational processes in well-being.
American psychologist
,
56
(3), 239.
Lyubomirsky, S., Sheldon, K. M., & Schkade, D. (2005). Pursuing happiness: The architecture
of sustainable change.
Review of general psychology
,
9
(2), 111Œ131.
Magaletta, P. R., & Oliver, J. (1999). The hope construct, will, and ways: Their relations with
self-efcacy, optimism, and general well-being.
Journal of clinical psychology
,
55
(5),
539Œ551.
Mayer, J. D., & Salovey, P. (1993).
The intelligence of emotional intelligence.
Elsevier.
Nes, L. S., & Segerstrom, S. C. (2006). Dispositional optimism and coping: A meta-analytic
review.
Personality and social psychology review
,
10
(3), 235Œ251.
Pavot, W., & Diener, E. (2009). Review of the satisfaction with life scale. In
Assessing well-
being
(pp. 101Œ117). Springer.
Sachs, J. D. (2018). America's health crisis and the easterlin paradox.
World happiness report
,
218
, 146Œ159.
Salovey, P., Bedell, B. T., Detweiler, J. B., & Mayer, J. D. (1999). Coping intelligently.
Coping:
The psychology of what works
, 141Œ164.
Scheier, M. F., & Carver, C. S. (1992). Effects of optimism on psychological and physical
well-being: Theoretical overview and empirical update.
Cognitive therapy and research
,
16
(2), 201Œ228.
Schwarzer, R. (2014).
Self-efcacy: Thought control of action
. Taylor & Francis.
Sheldon, K. M., & Houser-Marko, L. (2001). Self-concordance, goal attainment, and the
pursuit of happiness: Can there be an upward spiral?
Journal of personality and social
psychology
,
80
(1), 152.
Sheldon, K. M., & Kasser, T. (2001). Getting older, getting better? personal strivings and
52
psychological maturity across the life span.
Developmental psychology
,
37
(4), 491.
Sheldon, K. M., & Lyubomirsky, S. (2007). Is it possible to become happier?(and if so, how?).
Social and Personality Psychology Compass
,
1
(1), 129Œ145.
Shields, M. A., & Price, S. W. (2005). Exploring the economic and social determinants of
psychological well-being and perceived social support in england.
Journal of the Royal
Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society)
,
168
(3), 513Œ537.
Van der Meer, P. H. (2014). Gender, unemployment and subjective well-being: Why being
unemployed is worse for men than for women.
Social Indicators Research
,
115
(1), 23Œ
44.
Vesely, A. K., Saklofske, D. H., & Nordstokke, D. W. (2014). Ei training and pre-service
teacher wellbeing.
Personality and Individual Differences
,
65
, 81Œ85.
Youssef-Morgan, C. M., & Luthans, F. (2015). Psychological capital and well-being.
Stress
and Health
,
31
(3), 180Œ188.
Zeidner, M., Matthews, G., & Roberts, R. D. (2012a). The emotional intelligence, health, and
well-being nexus: What have we learned and what have we missed?
Applied Psychology:
Health and Well-Being
,
4
(1), 1Œ30.
Zeidner, M., Matthews, G., & Roberts, R. D. (2012b).
What we know about emotional intelli-
gence: How it affects learning, work, relationships, and our mental health
. MIT press.
Zeidner, M., & Olnick-Shemesh, D. (2010). Emotional intelligence and subjective well-being
revisited.
Personality and individual differences
,
48
(4), 431Œ435.
53
Appendices
54
Appendix A
Appendix
A.0.1 The maximisation problem
We recall that:
(1


)
H
pk


1
 H


1
ts
=
P
()
H
pk
= (
1



p
)
1
1


H
ts
;
(
1



p
)
1
1


=

(A.1)
And:
I
=
P
pk
H
pk
+
P
ts
H
ts
(A.2)
We compute
H
pk
from
 A.1
 and
 A.2
:
H

pk
=
 I
 P
pk
+
P
ts
=
 I
 P
pk
+
P
pk
P
=
 I
P
pk
[

+
1
p
]
=
I
P
pk
[1 +
1

P
]
(A.3)
When we compute
1

p
we nd :
1

p
=
1
P
[
1



P
]
1
1


=
1
P
(
P
)
1


1
[
1



]
1
1


=
1
(
P
)



1
[
1



]
1
1


(A.4)
Thus
H

pk
becomes as follows:
H

pk
=
I
P
pk
[1 + (
P
)

1


[
1



]
1


1
]
(A.5)
From the result of
H

pk
we can compute c as follows:
H

ts
=
H

pk

=
I
P
pk

[1 + (
P
)

1


[
1



]
1


1
]
=
I
P
pk
(
1



P
)
1
1


[1 + (
P
)

1


[
1



]
1


1
]
(A.6)
We have
P
pk
=
P ts

P
thus
H

ts
becomes as follows:
H

ts
=
I
P
ts
P
(
P
)
1


1
(
1



)
1
1


[1 + (
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
=
I
P
ts
(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


[1 + (
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
(A.7)
55
H

ts
=
I
P
ts
[(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


+ 1]
(A.8)
Now we compute
H

P K
H

ts
:
H

P K
H

ts
=
I
P
pk
[1+(
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
I
P
ts
[(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


+1]
=
P
ts
[(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


+ 1]
I
P
pk
[1+(
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
(A.9)
We have :
(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


= (
P
1


1
)

(
1



)
1
1


= (
1
P
1
1


)

(
1



)
1
1


= [
1
(
P
)
1
1


][
1
(
P
)
1
1


]


1
(
1



)
1
1


(A.10)
Thus:
(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


=

P
(A.11)
And we have:
(
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
= (
1
P
1


1
)

(
1



)
1


1
= (
1
P
1


1
)


1
(
1
P
1


1
)(
1



)
1


1
(A.12)
Thus:
(
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
=
1

P
(A.13)
Using the equations (1.36) and (1.37) in (1.34) we nd:
H

P K
H

ts
=
1
P
[1 +

P
]
[1 +
1

P
]
=

= (
1


P 
)
1
1


(A.14)
56
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
Fo r s c h u n g s in s titu t  
 
zur Zukunft d er A r b eit

Institute for the Stu d y 
 

of L ab or 
DISCUSSION PAPER SERIES
Current  Emotion  Research  in  Economic s
IZ A DP No. 10261
October 2016
Klaus Wälde
Agnes Moors
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics 
 
 
 
Klaus Wälde 
Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz, 
CESifo and IZA 
 
Agnes Moors 
KU Leuven - University of Leuven 
and Ghent University 
 
 
 

 
Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 
 
IZA 
 
P.O. Box 7240 
53072 Bonn 
Germany 
 
Phone: +49-228-3894-0 
Fax: +49-228-3894-180 
E-mail: iza@iza.org 
 
 
 

 
 
Any opinions expressed here are those of the author
(s) and not those of IZA. Research published in 
this series may include views on policy, but the inst
itute itself takes no institutional polic y positions. 
The IZA research networkis committed to the IZ
A Guiding Principles of Research Integrity. 
 

The Institutefor the Study of Labor(IZA) in Bonn is
 a local and virtual international research center 
andaplaceof communication betweenscience, politics andbusiness. IZA isan independentnonprofit 
organizationsupported by Deutsche Post Foundation. 
The center is associated 
with theUniversity of 
Bonn and offers astimulating research environment 
through its international network, workshops and 
conferences,data service, project support, research
 visits and doctoral program. IZA engages in (i) 
original and internationally competitive research in
 all fields of labor economics, (ii) development of 
policy concepts, and (iii) dissemination of research
 results andconcepts to the interested public.  
 

IZA Discussion Papers often represent preliminary 
workandare circulated to encourage discussion. 
Citation of such apaper should account for its pr
ovisional character. A revised versionmay be 
available directly from the author. 
IZA Discussion Paper No. 10261 
October 2016 
 
 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Current Emotion Research in Economics
*
 
 
Positive and negative feelings were central to the development of economics, especially in 
utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory ignored feelings, 
behavioral economics more recently reintroduced feelings in utility theory. Beyond feelings, 

economic theorists use full-fledged specific emoti
ons to explai n behavior that otherwise could 
not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some 

analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in 
most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to 
emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed. 

 
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
 

Emotions are central to human decision making. Economics provides the most rigorous 

approaches to decision making among social sciences given its strong roots in mathematical 
modelling and statistical analysis. This allows stronger and better testable predictions and 
leads to most reliable empirical findings
. This paper surveys how economists analyse 
emotions and their impact on economic and non-economic behaviour. 

 

 
JEL Classification: A12, B0, D03 
 

Keywords: emotions, decision making, theory 

 

 

Corresponding author: 
 
Klaus Wälde 

Mainz School of Management and Economics 

Johannes-Gutenberg University Mainz 

Jakob-Welder-Weg 4 
55131 Mainz 
Germany 

E-mail: 
waelde@uni-mainz.de
 
 
                                                 
*
 Preparation of this paper wassupported by the 
Gutenberg ResearchCouncil, by theResearch 
Programme G.0223.13N of the Research Foundation - 
Flanders (FWO)and the Research Fundof KU 
Leuven(GOA/15/003).We are grateful to Carlos  Al
ós-Ferrer, Andrew Caplin,Andreas Eder, Jürgen 
Eichberger, Ennio Stacchetti, and Peter Wakker fo
r discussions and very constructive comments. 
2 
Pleasure and pain areun doubte dlyth e  
ultim ateobje cts of theCa lculus of Economics
W . Sta nle y J evons (1871 , 1957, p. 37) 
W h y would emotion rese arche rs from othe rdis cipli nes (e.g., ps ycholo g y, p hilo soph y, 
sociolog y) b ein terested i n the wa y in which emoti ons are unde rstood and st udied in  

economic s? W hat is  there to be learn ed?  To start with , it might bein terestin g to see th at 

economis ts draw and le ar n alo t from ps yc holog y. W hat is  characte risti cto  economic  anal ysis, 

however, is the us eof for mal mathematic al tools . In theprocess of formaliz ing ps ycholo gic al 

ideas about dete rminants of emoti ons, the contents of these ideas get shaped , become more 

precis e, and/or are elabo r ated furthe r. This yi elds new insights in  thesedet ermi nants , whic h 

ma y also be ofin terest to oth er disciplin es th an ec onomics. Going one step further, almost an y 

theoretical e conomi can a l ysis comprises ad escrip ti on ofth eprocess  ofd ec ision ma king. 

W hen these anal yses a re ex tended to  allow for emoti ons, the y also off er ins ights into th e 

influence of emotions on th eoutcome of de cisio n makin g – in addit ion to several othe r 

determi nants ofde cisions. 
W e present an ove rview of emotion th eories and r esearch in economi cs, o r ganiz ed in 
three se ctions.
1
 The first s ectio n address es th erole that feelin gs pla y in util ity theorie s from 
classi cal e conomics, neo classical e conomi cs, and behavioral e conomi cs. T his historical 

digression allows us to betterunderstand som eof the current discussions in economic emoti on 

resea rch. Th e second s ect ion addresses the roleth a t specific full -blo wn emo tio ns, rath er than 

meref eelin gs, pla y in ec onomic anal ys es.
2
 Finall y,  Section 3 focuses on the questions what 
economis ts can lea rn fro m emotio n ps ycholo g y, a nd what ps yc holo g y and otherdis cipli nes 

can lea rn from emotio nal economic s – the anal ysis  of emoti ons in economi c s.  
The  Placeof  Fe eling s in Economics  
The natural pla ce to  look  for emotions in  economi cthin king is ‘utilit y theor y'. Util it y 
theor y giv es an a ccount o fth eproc ess of de cision ma king, which requir es a  comp arison of 

values of diff erent obje cts. W alkin g through th ehist or y ofutil it y theo ries in  economics, we 

seeth at fe elin gs sometim es have be en i gnored and  sometime s incorporated:  In classi cal 

economic s, utilit y was clearl y pe rceiv ed as a me as ureof an in dividual 's f eel in gs. Neo classical 

economic s, b y contr ast, provides a framewo rk that allows predic tin g human  behavior without 

an y ref erenceto  f eeli n gs.  Behavio ral e conomics, which can b e considered as a renaissanc e of 

classi cal e conomics with mo re sophis ticated research tools, provides interpr etations of util it y 

that again allow for th er ole  offe elings.  
1
 W e r estr ict o ur s urve y to  the o r etica l a na l yse s i n cor e  jo urna ls o fe co no mic s. T he r ead e r  is r e fe rr ed to  W äld e 
( 20 16 )  fo r  a mo r e co mpr e he nsive  ver sio n,  wh ic h al so  c o mpr ises re fe re nc es  to ps yc ho log ic al sur ve ys  o f the  ro le  

o f e mo tio n s in d eci sio n ma kin g a nd  for  a  mo re  e xte ns ive  tr e at me nt of t he  for ma l ba ckgro u nd .  
2
  W e follo w p sycho lo gy i n consid er i ng  fe e lin g s a s  one  a mo ng se ve r al ot her c o mpo ne nt s o fe mo tion s or  
e motio na l ep isod e s ( ne xt to  i nfor ma tio n pr o cessin g,  ac tio n te nde nc ie s, and  e xp re ssi ve  b eha vio r ). 
3 
Classical econo mics  
The term utilit y was intro duced into  economi cs in 1776 b y Ad am Smi th inhis path-
breakin g book "The W ea lth of Nations" (St igle r, 1 950a, p. 307). It is define d as the "v aluein  

use" of a c ertain good, fo r example, the value of u sing a pie ce of furnit ure. This differs from 

the "valu e in ex change ", which would beth epric e  of the piece o f furnitu r e. It w as left to 

Bentham (1789, 1970 ), h owever, to mak eutil it y a popula rconc ept. Hemad e the famous 

statement that "N ature h a s placed ma nkind unde rth egov ernanceo f two so vereign ma sters,  

pain and ple asur e " (p. 11 ). His anal ysis then conti nued with  adisc ussion of  various t yp es of 

pleasures ( e.g., from w ea lth, skill , power, ex pecta tion, and reli ef) and pains (e. g., ofdesir e, 

disappointme nt, regret, a nd ex pectation). The importance o f understa ndin g feelin gs was 

ex pressed even mo r efor cefull y b y J evons (1871, 1957).  He used thet erm utili t y "to denote  

the abst ract qu alit y wh ereb y an obje ct se rves our purposes". This obje ct is th en said to "a fford 

pleasure or ward o ff pain " to it s user (both quotes from p. 38). Lik e Bentha m, he considered 

pleasure and pain to be "t he ultima teobje cts of the  Calculus of Economi cs" (p. 37). This 

interpreta tion of utilit y as a feeli ng w as shar ed b y Edge worth (1881, 1967, p. 67), who 

understo od utilit y as a form of pleasur e and the m aximiz atio n ofsocial welfare as achi eving 

the "gr eatest possib lehap piness" (p.67). 
Neoclassic al econo mics  
The introduction of the c oncept of util it y into economi cs was accompanie d  b y a 
discussion of how utilit y could be measur ed and w hether it could be comp ar ed across 

individ uals.J evons (1871, 1957)st rongl y d enied that uti lit y could be m eas ured, statin g th at 

"we can h ardl y form the conception of aunit ofpl easure o r pain " and that t he ideaof 

"quantities of f eeli n gs" is  out of the questi on (Stigler, 1950a, p. 317). As a r eactio n to this 

difficult y, n eoclassic al ec onomics developed theor ies of decisio n makin g that are free ofan y 

ex plicit discussion of feeli ngs. W eil lustrate this by dis cussin g thre evariant s of neoclassic al 

economic  theories: th ep r efer enc e-bas ed appro ach,  the choice-b ased approa ch, and ex pected 

utili t y theor y.  
The preferenc e-based ap proach 
In the p reference-based a pproach, human b eings a redesc ribed in terms of ‘ prefe renc e 
relationship s’, which ex presse s their tastes. Such a  relationship  could st ate f ora ce rtain 

individ ual that a consumption bundle x  (e.g., 5 lo afs of br ead and 3 bo wls of ice- cre am) is "
at 
least as good
" as a consu mptio n bundle y (e. g., 4 l oafs of br ead and 4 bo wls of ice-c re am). 
S ymbolic all y, this  is repr esented b y x

y. An y real -world in dividual would then bedesc ribed 
b y one p ref erence relatio nship on a ver y large (if not in finite )numb er of c onsumptio n 
bundles. Under f airl y general conditio ns, this preference relationship can b e repres ente d b y 

the formula u(x )u( y), w hich states that utili t y fro m x  is  atleast as lar ge as utilit y f rom y. 

Based on th eassumptio n that in dividuals want to max imiz e utilit y, p redicti ons about huma n 

decisio n makin g are poss ible if weendow thein di vidual with a certain amount of resourc es 

(labourincome, capita l income, we alth, valuable goods) and inform him/her about pric es of 

the goods.  
The standard inte rpretati on of this approach do es not allow an y room for f eeli ngs. As 
Varia n (1992 ) put it:  "A uti lit y fun ctio n is often a ver y conveni ent wa y to d escribe 

prefe renc es, but it  should not be given an y ps ycho logical interpretation " (p.  95). Yet, our 

intuit iveunderstanding o f “pre ferenc es”, “tast es”, and "at least as good as " do suggest that 
4 
feeli n gs are involved. If I prefe r ice cre am to  brea d, this  means that I h ave amore positive 
hedonicex perienc e when  eating th eice c ream tha n when eatin g br ead. Th e refor e, the 

prefe renc eapp roach is n ot in itself incompatible with an interpretation of prefe renc es as 

involvin g feelin gs. Feeli ngs could provid eth eps yc holo gic al mic ro-found atio n ofeconomic 

prefe renc e r elationships.  
The choice-based appro ach 
The choice -based approa ch ( going back to Sa muel son, 1947)puts  forward t he notio n 
of “rev ealed p ref erence r elationship s”, with an em phasis  on “rev eale d”. Th e rela tionships for 

an individual would then state that ace rtain consu mpti on bundlex is  “reve aled pre ferred” to a 
consumption bundle  y (sym boli call y, th is is often expressed as x


y). The big dif f eren ce with  
the preferen ce-b ased app roach is th at the r eveal ed  prefe renc er elationship 


 is defined with  
respect to obse rvable s and not wit h respect to tastes of an in dividual: A consump tion bundlex  
is “reve aled preferred” to y if an individual choos e s x  and if  bothx  and y areaffordable b y the 

individ ual. As Mas-Colell, W insto n, and Green (1 995) put it, a "theor y o f individual decisio n 

making ne ed not bebas e d on a process o f introspecti on but can be giv en a n enti rel y 

behavioral found atio n". Some  auth ors (Brandstätt er, Güth, & Kliemt, 2007) argue th at th e 

choice-b ased app roach to  individual decisio n makin g in e conomi cs is  thein carnatio n of 

positi vism inthe philo soph y ofs cienc eas is beha viorism in  ps ycholog y,  a nd th at economi cs 

is now currentl y unde r go ing a co gnitive revoluti on. 
Expected ut ility  theory 
The models of decisio n making discussed so far are based on the assumpt ion that we 
live in a determinist icworld, as the y do not ref er t o an y pot enti al sourceo f uncertaint y or risk. 

This lim itationis overcome  b y expected utili t y th eor y, which c an be considered as th e 

standard e conomic decisi on model under risk to da y.
3
 Accordin g to  this versi on of utili t y 
theor y, th e “ex pected util it y”of an acti on option e quals the sum of the valu es of thepossi ble 

outcomes ofth ea ction ti mes th esubjective likelihoods th at the action will  indeed le ad to  

these outcome s. An in div idual faced with the decis ion between two a ction optio ns calc ulates 

the expected utiliti es of both actio n options and chooses the action with  the highest ex pected 

utili t y. Take an in dividua l who has to decide betw een spendin g thenex t we ekend outdoors or 

indoors, without having c ertaint y about what the w eath er will belik e, and h ence whether 

his/h er choicewill lead t o th edesired outcome . T his individ ual has to rely on thevalues of 

indoor and outdooractivi tie s given e ach w eath e rc onditi on combin ed with  theprobabil ities of 

these weath erconditi ons.   
Sim ilar to  the deterministic (preference-based and choice-based) uti lit y mod els 
discussed above, the expected uti lit y model as ori ginall y desi gned do es not le ave room fo r 

feeli n gs. This neoclassic al, feeli n g-fre evie wof ut ilit y is the most widel y h eld in economic s, 

whether implic itl y or expli citl y. As Kahneman, W akker, and Sa rin (1997, p . 375) put it, 

"Utilit y is inferred f rom observed choi ces and is i n turn used to ex plain th ese choices. " The re 
is no need to think about whether utilit y is a f eelin g, le ave alon ewhat t ype offeelin g it is. It is  
a constr uct, which is not and even do es not need t o be observed.  
3
 In e cono mic  de cisio nthe o r y, a distinc tio n is dr a wn be t we e n 
ri sk
 (o bj e ctive p r ob abilitie s) and  
u nc erta inty
( subj e ctive  p ro ba b ilitie s; se e Gilb oa , 2 0 09 ; Knig ht, 1 9 21 ) . 
5 
Behavio ral economi cs 
The neoclassic al appro ac h discussed in  theprevio us sectio n equates utilit y with  overt 
choice, th us igno rin g the distinction between what  makes indiv iduals trul y happ y and what 

the y choose. As Gul and Pesendorfe r (2008)put it , in "the standa rd appro ach, the term uti lit y 

max imiz ation and choice ares ynon ymo us ". In oth er words, wh at an individ ual is obse rved to 

do is, b y assumpti on, what max imiz es his/h er util it y. This fe atureof th e ne oclassi cal appro ach 

has spurred alternativ ep r oposals, which go b y th e name ofbeh avioral e con omics, to return to  

an interpret atio n ofutil ity in terms of feelin gs. Fo r insta nce, Loomes and Sudgen (1982, 1986) 

took util it y to mean “ experienc ed utilit y”, ther eb y putting themselves in the  tr aditi on of 

classi cal e conomics a gai n. Forth em, the util it y function me asures "the ps ychologic al 

ex perienceof pl easur e that is associated with the s atisfaction of desir e" ( Lo omes & Su gden, 

1982, p. 807). From now on, we useth ete rm ex perie nced uti lit y to r efer to the t ypeo f util it y 

that does not onl y dep end on observable choices but also on su bjecti vefee lings and/or valu es. 

Note that th eanal yses in th esection “Emotions in economics”all adopt an ex perienced uti lit y 

view.  
Kahneman et al. (1997) t ook the proposal of Loo mes and Su dgen (1986) o neste p 
further b y splitti ng utilit y into decision uti lit y and experienced util it y and b y a r guin g that both  

t ypes usuall y f all apart in  realit y and must th ere for e betre ated as dif fer ent objects  in theor y. 

Decis ion utilit y is inf err e d from th eovert choi ces that people  make. Ex perienced uti lit y is 

itse lfagain split into threesubt ypes: (a) in stant utilit y, whic h result s from t heoutc omeof a 

decisio n (e. g., consumpti on, health, and social stat us), (b)r emember ed util it y, which an 

individ ual recalls  (pote nt iall y in  abiased wa y) fro m past outcomes, and (c )  predic ted in stant 

utili t y, whic h is anticip ated b y th e individ ual. 
Oneim portant challe n ge to th eneoclassical utili t y theor y b y behavior al app roaches is 
the use ofnon- choicedat a. W hile theuse of self- r eport and ph ysio logi cal d ata to measur e 

subjective well -bein g is s ta ndard in ps ycholo g y, th is  is traditionall y not so i n economics. 

Howeve r, in one areao f behavioral e conomics, na mel y happin ess rese arch,  th emeasurem ent 

of subjective well- b eing (in the spirit of Cla rk, Diener, Y annis, & Lu cas, 2 008; Diener, Su h, 

Luc as, & Smit h 1999)is commo n. Economi sts working in this field asked whetherav er a ge 

happiness in societ y rises  over tim e, and found tha t it does not, even when c ountries become  

richer ( Easterlin , 1974, 2 001; Stevenson & W olfe rs, 2008). This was dubb ed the Easterlin 

paradox . Economists  also asked wheth er unempl o yed worke rs ar emore o rle ss happ y th an 

emplo yed worke rs. Choice-bas ed appro aches re asoned that giv en that une mplo yed peopl e 

choosenot to work, the y mu st attach a high eruti lity to not workin g th an to working. Yet ther e 

is abundant evid enc e that  unemplo yed worke rs rep ort lower happiness v alues than emplo ye d 

workers, even wh en the dif feren ces in in come  and other socio-e conomic f acto rs ar eta ken in to 

account (Cla rk and Osw a ld, 1994, Di Tella, MacC ull och, and Oswald , 200 1, Ohta ke, 2012). 

This suggests th at unemp lo yed wo rkers would  rat her like to work and th at at least apa rt of 

their curr ent status is due to factors outside of thei rchoice. 
Onefinal ex tension in behavio ral economics worth  menti oning is that util ity c an be 
construed as not onl y dep endin g on on e’s own con sumption but also on th econsumption of 

others. This exte nsion allows an ex planatio n ofaltruism and env y within a utilit y f rame work 

(see Beck er, 1976; Ra bin , 1993; Fehr & Sc hmidt,  1999). If w e denote utili ty of individual A 

by u
A
, then h er uti lit y wo uld be given b y u
A
=u( c
A
,c
B
), where c
A
 is consump tio n ofA and c
B
 is 
consumption of an individual B (whi ch could also  stand fora la r ge group o f indiv iduals). The 

utili t y fun ction u(.) woul d rise in both ar guments such that one could me aningfull y ta lk about 

altruism of individ ual A with respect to  individual B. If utilit y rises in c
A
 b ut falls in c
B
, one 
could talk about env y of individ ual A with respect  to  individual B. Moreel aborate  v ersions of 
6 
this idea can be found in Rabin’s (1993)and Fehr and Schmidt’ s (1999) tre atments of 
fairness. These e conomic  anal ys es of altr uism and fair ness a re not in the first  place about 

tr yin g to  understa nd th e underl yin g feelin gs but moreabout th ee ffe cts of  altruism and 

fairness on behavior. The  sameseems to be tru efo r the literatureon recip ro cit y (Sobel, 2005). 

Reciprocal b ehavior coul d have an in trinsicall y hi gh valu e (thein dividual likes recipro cal 

behavior pe r se)o r it could be instrumental (thein dividual behaves r ecip rocal as he/she 

ex pects areturn).  
Emotions  in Economic s
W e nowlo ok at the role offull-blown specific em otions in economic anal yses. This 
sectio n distinguish es bet ween ( a)ex -ante  o rantici pator y emoti ons, which o ccurat the 

moment of the decis ion making and 
b efore
 the ou tcomeis  reve aled (e.g., f ear of a ne gativ e 
outcome, desire or hop e of aposi tive outcome )an d (b)ex -post emotions, which occur 
afte
r 
the decis ion is taken and when theoutc ome is r eve aled. If futu re ex-post em otions are 

anticipated at the momen t of the decisio n makin g, the y are calle d anti cip
ate d 
emotions. In 
addition to st ud yin g the q ualit y of emotions, so me economic res ear che rs als o stud y the 

intensit y o f emotions, an d the evolu tion of this in tensit y ove r tim e.   
Economic emotio n models deliver two t yp es of kn owledge. Fi rst, the y p rov ide an 
account of the o ri gins or determinants of spe cific emoti ons, borrowing frequentl y f rom 

ps ycholo gic al insights . T heformal an al ysis that is  t ypic all y unde rtaken in economic anal ysis, 

however, further d etails a nd shapes thesein si ghts. Second, economic  models  provid ean 

account of ho w specific e motions influenceutil it y and henc e the outcome  o fth edecisio n 

making pro cess.  In othe r words, the y take emotio ns as one amon g sev eral d etermi nants of 

decisio ns. Both t yp es of knowledgewill  beill ustrated in the treatm ent of e x -ante  and ex -post 

emotions and in the resea rch on the d ynamics of e motions. 
Ex-ante e motions  
Ex -ante emotions or anticipator y emoti ons occur at the moment of decisi o n makin g 
and are caus ed b y the cur rent anticipation of an un certain ev ent th at will  take place at a futur e 

point in  time. Illustr ation s include an individual who needs to go to a docto r fora dia gnosis,  

an investo rconsiderin g t heacquisitio n ofa lar ge sto ck of risk y assets, or a  child lookin g 

forwa rd to her birthda y. W econsider models that have anal ys ed th eex -ant e emoti ons of 

anx iety and cr avin g vs. d isgust. In th ee conomic lite rature, some mod els are static whil e 

others usean ex plicit d yn amic fram ework (i. e., whic h includes diffe rent time points). Our 

discussion of anx iety is d yn amic, wher eas our illu stration of cravin g vs. dis gust ne gle cts 

d ynamic aspects.  
Anx iety
An expli cit mo del of ex -ante emotions, in  partic ular anx iet y, w as develop e d b y Caplin 
and Leah y (2001).
4
 Think of an in vestor who, fo rs im plicit y, lives fo rtw o time perio ds onl y, t 
and t+1. He mak es an inv estment at time  t and, at tim et+1, he receives an interest rate  o r 

return, denoted b y r
t+ 1
. This return is uncertain at time  t. Thereturn c an tak e an y value and a 
simp leex ample would  bevalues of-1 % in the ba d case and +1% in the go od case. Th e 

investor owns ac ertain a mo unt of wealth w
t
 in t (sa y 1000 E UR) which he  can spli t between 
consumption c
t
 and thein vestme nt i
t
. In period t+ 1, his consu mption level amounts  to the 
4
 Fo r e ar lie r  wor k o n ‘savo ur i ng’a nd  ‘dr ea d’ in a  wo rld  witho ut unc er tai nt y, see Lo e we nste i n ( 1 98 7 ).T o se e 
ho w muc h mor e  the o re tic al w or k is nee de d to  a cc ount for  e mp ir ic al fi ndi ng s, se e Ha rr is (2 01 0) . 
7 
original investment plus th einte rest pa yments on i t, c
t+ 1
 = i
t
 + r
t+ 1
 i
t
. Ima gin e his opti mal 
decisio n implies investment of 300 EUR (and the r efore consump tion c
t
 of 700 EUR in  the 
first period). Then his /he r consumpt ion le vel c
t+ 1  
 in t+1 equals 300+3 EUR in the good c ase 
when th einte rest r ate is +1%or 300-3 E UR in the bad c ase when th e inte r est rateis  -1%.  
To understand the de cision process ofthe inv estor, wene ed to desc ribe his 
prefe renc es. The investor  values consumptio n and ex periences antic ipato r y emotio ns. 

Instant aneous util it y in the first perio d t is a fun ctio n u(.) of consump tion c
t
 and theemotio n 
a
t
. Instantan eous uti lit y i n t is  therefore written as u(c
t
,a
t
). In perio d t+1, th e  investo rhas the 
same utilit y function u(.) but there is  noth ing to be anti cipated (as li f eis ove rat the end of 

t+1). Instanta neous uti lity in t+ 1 is ther efor e u(c
t+ 1
,0). Anti cipator y emotio ns arise as th e 
interest rate r
t+ 1
 is uncertain. Caplin and Leah y (2 001) specif y the anticipat or y emoti on as 
anx iety. Anx ie t y is assumed to rise  in the varian c e ofth einte r est rate and to fall in it s mean: 

The more th ere is unce rta int y, th emore the inv esto ris  "anx ious" th at th einte rest rat e ma y 

differ f rom its  expected value. At th esame time, h owever, when the ex pected value of the 

interest rate rises, anx ie t y fall s. Im a gineth at the va riance is constant but so mema rvelous 

mechanism can inc rease the aver a ge inter est rate. It se ems pla usible that this would make an 

investor less anx io us about theoutc omeof the inv estment. If the avera gein te rest rate  is la r ge 

enough, (ne gative ) anx iety could tu rn into  (posit ive) su spense.  
W hen we specif y a certai n functio nal form forth e utili t y fun ction and anx iet y, we can 
compute optimal investment le vels i
t
. Optimal investme nt is a function of t he following 
determi nants:  pref erence and personalit y par amete rs, the ex pecte d interest r ate, its varianc e, 

and – thenew featur e of t his setup – anx iety. Such aframework pr edicts (at least) two 

relationship s: (1)The mo rean individ ual is  worrie d about the varian ceof th e retu rn and the 

less this worr y reduc es in  the avera ge r eturn, the le ss the individ ual will invest.  W h y?  

W orr yin g a lot about the outcome s ofan investme nt creates a lot of ne gativ e feelin gs with  

respect to investments. T he optima l reaction is th e refor e to redu cein vestme nts. (2)The 

predic tions become riche rwhen w econsider th ed egree to  whi ch anx iety m atters to an 

individ ual relativ eto th eutil it y he/she can gain fro m consumption. W e predict that an 

emotional indiv idual (forwhom anx iet y m atters m ore)will save less onl y if  he/she worries 

enough. In other wo rds, thereis a d ependen c y of t heemotion eff ect on the worr y e ffect: An 

emotional indiv idual could save more if  he/sh e w orries less.  
Craving  vs disg ust 
Laibson ( 2001) proposed  an anal ysis of consumpti on behavio rthat is driven  b y habit s, 
which in turn are d evelop ed through cues and subsequent rew ards. As an example, think of an 

individ ual walking throu gh the str eets and the ma n y adv erti sements he/she  encounte rs fo r 

drugs su ch as ci ga rett es. These cues can in duc estr ong desir es for consumin g this dru g. 

Craving f or ad ru g can th en sim pl y beunde rstood as high ma r gin al util it y from th edrug.  
To seethis  most clearl y, consideran indiv idual w ho in  principle enjo ys d r ugs and 
food. Followin g Laibson (2001), th eessential aspe ct of the decis ion proble m can be described 

b y a utilit y function that reads u= (c
d rug
-x )
 
(c
f ood
)
1-
. Consump tion of drugs is denote d b y c
d rug
, 
consumption of food b y c
f ood
, and both vari ables a reassumed to take on ap ositi vevalue. The 
parame te rx  denotes a cue (an adv erti sement fo rci ga rette s), whi ch is positi vebut not as la r ge 

as the consumpti on itself (c
d rug
). Theindiv idual’s preferenc e forth e dru g is captured b y a 
prefe renc epa ramete r  w hich satisf ies 0< <1.  W hen the individ ual can us e a c erta in amount 

of mone y to bu y d ru gs a nd food, s/he would  cons ume an optimal amount of both drugs and 

food ofwhich the exact quantit y dep ends on the pr efer enc e parameter , th e  cue x  and th e 

prices of dru gs and food.  
8 
Now imagin eth ecu ebec omes more positive, that is, x  rises (but still rema ins below 
c
d rug
). Then, mar ginal util it y from consumi n g drugs rises, meanin g that the i ncrease  in utilit y 
result ing f rom an incr ease in drug consumption rises. This can be s een as a formal translatio n 

of strong d esir eor craving. The mo re in tense  the c ue, the high erth einc re asein  utilit y f rom 

drugs. As aconsequ enc e,  drug consumpti on rises. In an extr eme c ase, the in dividual will  stop 

consuming an y food and use all ofhis/  her mone y for dru g consumpti on.  
B y simp l y r eversin g the valenceo f the cue x  in the sameuti lit y fun ctio n u, onecan use 
this framework to also un derstand dis gust or horro r (i.e., theopposi teof craving). Suppose 

that the cue en counte r ed b y the p erson would be a  warnin g messa ge on tobacco p acka gin g 

inste ad of an adv ertis eme nt praising the good. Giv en the same utilit y fun ction as above, wh en 

the cue x  is sufficientl y 
n egative
 (the w arnin g me s sage is sufficientl y ex plicit), an individual 
might actuall y choos e no t to consumedrugs at all. If cues are n e gativ e eno ugh, mar gin al 

utili t y f rom drugs becom es ver y small (the mor e x  approach es min us infinity,  the closer 

margin al uti lit y from cigarette s lies to z ero). This ver y small incre ase in util it y from an 

additional unit ofconsumptio n could be called disgust orev en horro r. One  and th esame 

structure(the utilit y func tio n u)can therefor e illu strate the link betwe en em otion concepts  of 

opposite  meanin g b y sim pl y var yin g the si gn ofth e cue x . 
Ex-post e motions 
Ex -post emotions occur after th ede cision has been taken and th eoutcom e o fthe 
decisio n is reveale d. Illustrations include the outcome  ofa medic al ex am,  ofgettin g mar ried, 

or ofac ceptin g an ew job . W e consider models tha t have anal ysed th eex -post emotions of 

re gret vs. r ejoic in g, and d is appointm ent vs.  elation.  
Regret vs. re joicing 
In Loom es and Su gden ( 1982), ex perienced uti lit y ofth eindiv idual r esult ing f rom a 
choice does not onl y in clude utili t y from thechoic e per se  (as sta nda rd neo classic al 

economic s would have it ) but also re gr et or rejoic i ng r elative to the alte rnat ive. Im a gine an 

individ ual who can spen d holida ys in  Ital y (optio n 1)or in Fr anc e(optio n 2). If she d ecid es to 

go to Ital y but, onc e she arrives, the reis  more su n  in Franc e (whi ch is th ea lt ernative), sh e 

would re gret the choice. If thereis  mor esun in  It a l y than in Franc e, she wo uld rejo ice. To 

formula teth is ideaa bit mo re pre cisel y, assume  t he weath erin  Ital y and France can b erain y, 

cloud y, o r sunn y. Thewo rld can th erefor e be in 3x 3=9 sta tes j (see Fi gure 1 ). 
Ital y\Fran ce Rain y Cloud y Su nn y 
Rain y 1 2 3 
Clo ud y 4 5 6 
Sunn y 7 8 9 
Figure 1
: The stat es j of t he world with  Ita lian w eathers in the rows and Fr e nch we athers in  
the colu mns 
9 
W hen we sim plif y Loom es and Su gd en’s (1982 ) a pproach as mu ch as possi ble with out 
losin g theessential point s, we denote  utilit y fo r the individual that choseo pti on 1 and th estate 

of the world bein g j b y u( c
1j
,c
2j
)=c
1j
+R(c
1j
-c
2j
). Utili t y from thechoi ceof op tion 1 in  statej is 
repres ented b y c
1j
, utili t y from thechoic e of thealt ernative option 2 in  state j is c
2j
, and R(c
1j
-
c
2j
) measures re gret or r e joic ing. It would makes e nse  to assume  that (a) th e re is neitherr e gret 
nor rejo icin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)= 0)for states 1, 5, and 9, ( b) rejoicin g (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)>0)  for states 4, 7, and 
8, and (c) re gr et (R(c
1j
-c
2j
)<0) fo rsta tes 2, 3, and 6 . 
W hen thein dividual makes a choic eabout whe ret o go on holi da y, thesta te  j of the 
world is  unknown. Sh eth erefo re has to b ase he r decisi on on theex pected utilit y f rom both 

options.  The ex pected util it y U
1,2
 from option 1 isgiv en b y the sum of th e u tilit ies in agiv en 
state ofth eworld w eight ed b y th eprobabilit y p
j
 t hat this sta tewill  actu all y reali z e, 

, 


	





,






. 
The expected utili t y U
2,1
from option 2 is th en ex press ed in per fect analo g y.  W hen 
considerin g going to  France, the alte rnativ eis Italy (optio n 1). Util it y in sta te  j ofth eworld 

when havin g chos en opti on 2 is u(c
2j
,c
1j
)=c
2j
+R(c
2j
-c
1j
). Here, ther ewould be re gr et (forst ates 
4, 7, and 8)or r ejoicing ( in states 2, 3, and 6)in e x actl y th e opposite wa y a s described ab ove 

forth echoic e of It al y. T he expected utili t y is the n given b y 

, 


	





,






. 
It is interesti n g to note th at even thou gh individ uals areassumed to max imiz e ex pecte d 
utili t y, this is 
not
 an example of expected utili t y theor y as de fined pr eviousl y. Util it y he re 
depends not onl y on the uti lit y c
ij
 from thea ctual choicebut also on th eh ypothetical utilit y 
that the alte rnative choic e would  have p rovid ed.  
W hen thein dividual makes a decisio n whereto sp end holid a ys, this de cision is  based 
on both ex pecte d utilit ies. An indiv idual will  go to Ital y (i.e., pre fers optio n 1 over optio n 2), 
wheneve r the expected ut ilit y f rom Ital y is  large r than theex pected utili t y f rom Fran ce(i. e., 

wheneve r U
1,2
>U
2,1
). 
The setup imp lies that standard, non-emotional de cision ma king is a spe cia l case of 
this setup. W hen oneassumes that R(c
1j
-c
2j
)=R(c
2j
-c
1j
)=0 for all states, a p e rson’s holid a y 
choices onl y depend on u tilit y c
1j
 and c
2j
 from option 1 and 2 in state j. Individuals would not 
compare after th e decisio n is taken and would just experiencea ce rtain utili ty lev el from the 

current w eathe r conditions whereverth e y ended u p spending their holida ys . Onecan easil y 

imagine that allowin g fo r  emotio ns via thefunction R has a strong impa ct o n predic tions 

about choic es.  
Disappointm ent vs. elation 
In thei r stud y on disappoi ntment and elation, Loo mes and Sugd en (1986) a gain fo cus 
on ex -post emotio ns thatresu lt from thema tch or mis match between th eou tcome ofa choi ce 

and some ref er ence point . W hile the refer ence poi nt in the cases of r e gret a nd rejoicing was 

the h ypothetic al utili t y o f  an alternative option ( e. g., goin g to Ita l y), h ereth ereferen ce point is 

the expected utilit y from the option chosen (e. g., going to  Franc e). An in div idual is 

disappointed if the actu al uti lit y is lo wer th an the e x pecte d utilit y ( e. g., whe n it rains) and 

elated when th eactual uti lit y is hi ghe r than the expected util it y ( e.g., when t here is sun).  
An alte rnative approa ch t o disappointment is  proposed b y Gul (1991). Lik e  Loomes 
and Sugden (1986), Gul ( 1991) also defines elation relativ eto so mere feren ce poin t. But 
while the ref erence point for Loome n and Su gden (1986) was ex pected utili t y ofc

 andc

, for 
10 
Gul (1991)it  is the so-called "c erta int y equiv alent " of theun certa in choic e.
5
 Takea gain the 
holida y choi cebetw een Ital y and Fr anceund er un certaint y discussed above . If the outcome 

(weathe r condition) is be tte rth an the ce rtaint y equ ivalent,  the individual is elated; if not, the 

individ ual is disappoin ted. W hile Loom es and Su gden (1986) w rite  down a convincin g and 

intuit ively plausible form , Gul (1991)deriv es the utilit y fun ction from vari ous ax ioms that 

remain as close  as possib leto  axioms  ofex pected utilit y theor y.  
The  dynamic s of  emo tions  
Emotio ns in economi cs tr aditi onall y hav ebe en modelled as something inst antaneous. 
W hen there is an unc ertai n event in  thefuture, th ere is an emoti on ofanx iety or susp ense. 

W hen theevent in the fut ure is  taken a wa y ( e.g., th eex am is  canceled ), the  emotion is  gone. 

W hen thein dividual ex perienc es ane gative outco me (e. g., a b ad mark on a n ex am), there is 

disappointme nt, but when th ene gative outcome is  taken aw a y (e.g., the m a rk is corre cted), 

disappointme nt is gone. There is a lot of evidenc e , however, th at emotions sometim es onl y 

gr aduall y build  up whil eat other times the y build  up ver y quickl y (se eHe ylen et al., 2015, for 

the case  o fan ge r).  
In a recent mo del of the d ynamic s o fstr ess, W älde (2015) studie d the patte rn of aslo w 
increas e and a slow d ecli ne of emotio ns. In the pr esence o f a str essor, stress gr aduall y builds 

up. W hen thest ressor is ta ken aw a y, subjectiv el y f elt str ess onl y gr aduall y f alls.  Sometimes it 

takes an entir e we ekend t o recove r from astr essful  week at wo rk—oran ent ireweek to 

recove r from astr essful weekend. This ex plicit dyn amic stru cture o ffe rs a formal background 

forunderstandin g cross -over ofemotio ns from work to the privatedoma in and also spil l-over 

processes o f emoti ons onto partners ( Bakk er & Demerouti, 2012).
6
Why Emotiona l Economics is Us ef ul 
For econo mics 
Economic theor y adv anc es b y takin g emotio ns into account.  In cluding emotio ns (or 
the mechanisms le adin g t o them) as addit ional det ermin ants of decisio n ma king c an improve 

the predictive pow erof e x istin g economi cde cision models. Kahneman and  Tversk y (1979) 

force full y ar gued th at observed choi cebeh avio rp resents  man y vio latio ns to fundamental 

ax ioms of expected utility theor y. To ac commo da teth ese violations, Loom es and Sugd en 

(1982)develop ed a theor y of d ecisi on makin g that is descripti vely mo r esuc cessful in 

ex plainin g observed hum an behavior than st andar d expected utilit y mo dels . The motivation 

forGul (1991) w as sim ilar: Be havio robse rved in ex perime nts departed in as yst ematic wa y 

(givin g rise to the so- call ed Alla is paradox ) from centr al axio ms of expected utili t y th eor y 

(the independen ce ax iom). Gul posed th equestion  of how this ax iom couldbe relax ed to  

account fo r this vio latio n and how to make pr edic t ed behavio r consistent with  theAlla is 

paradox .  
5
 T he  cer ta int y e q uiva le nt c o f a  ra nd o m o utc o me  x yie ld s  the sa me  utili t y u( .)  as e xp ec te d utilit y fr o m the  
r and o m o utco me , u(c )= Eu( x). As an e xa mple , i ma gi ne you  have  to  c ho ose  be t we e n a  c e r ta in a mo unt of mo ne y 

( e.g., 30 E UR) a nd  alo tte r y ti c ke t ( e.g., 60 %c ha nc e o f win nin g 10 0 EU Ra nd  40 %c ha nc e of win ni n g2 0 E UR) .  

I f you ar e indi ffe re nt b et wee n the  ce rta in a mou nt o f 3 0  EUR a nd  the lo tte r y tic ket, t he n t he 30  EU R is the  
c er ta int y e q ui va lent o f the lo tt e r y t ic ke t.   
6
T he re is a la r ge  fie ld o f e mo tio n re se ar ch b a se d o n “p s yc ho logica l ga me  t he or y”  ( Ge ana ko plo s, P e ar ce, & 
Sta c che tt i, 1 9 89 ). I t studie s e motio ns de p end ingo no the r  pe op le’s pr esume d e motio n s a nd b e lie fs, s uc h a s 
feeli ng guilt y wh e n di sap po int ing a p e rso n tha t tr u sts i n o ne ’ s be ha v io r . I mme dia te  e mo tio ns a nd vi scer al facto rs 

a re  ana l ysed  b y Loe we nstei n ( 20 00). Se e W ä ld e( 2016 ) for  a mor e  e xten si ve tr eat me nt o f t he se  i ss ues.
11 
For psychology  
Is emotional economi cs useful foradv ancin g ps ychologic al understa ndin g of 
emotions? W e think formal mathematical anal ys es in economic s c an furth erre fine and 

elaborate id eas f rom ps ycholog y. In doing so , emotio nal economi cs also p oints  out further 

determi nants ofemotio ns . Finall y, economic theor ie s provid edetailed h ypo theses about how 

emotions and otherdeter minants in fluence de cisio n makin g and b ehavio rin  general.  Th ese 

h ypothes es can b etaken as a sourc eof inspir ation  for ps ycholo gists inte res te d in how 

apprais al or info rmation processi n g more b roadl y understo od translates int o actio n tendencies 

and actio ns.  
Determ ina nts of emo tions 
The first objective of eco nomic theorists  who in cluded emoti ons as one t yp e of 
determi nant of de cision ma king w as not to understand specific emoti ons p er se but to  

understa nd thee ffe cts of emotions on decision making. This brou ght th em to a decisio n 

theor y th at is descrip tivel y moresu cc essful in ex plainin g obse rved human b ehavior than 

standard ex pecte d utilit y models. W hether these a uthors also had an inte ntion to come up with  

a model th at describ es e motio ns orwhethera fo r mal anal ysis eventu all y r eveale d astr uctur e 

that could be giv en an int uiti veinte rpretatio n b y u sing emotion conc epts  can onl y be 

answer ed b y the authors. W hateverthe intentio n, theoutc omeof thes e anal ys es is  a 

fascinatin gl y simp le and ele gant chara cteriz atio n ofemotio n concepts: In t he models of 

Loomes and Sugd en (19 86) and Gul (1991), re gr et, rejoicin g, elation, and disappointme nt are 

all chara cteriz ed in terms  of some ref erencepoin t. In the mod el ofCa plin a nd Le ah y (2001 ), 

anx iety is ch aracteriz ed b y prop erti es of un certain consumptio n (its mean and the varia nc e), 

which in turn resu lt from  uncertain investment. As  consumption also depen ds on an 

individ ual’s other income  sources (apa rt from this sp ecific investment), broaderpe rsonal 

consideratio ns be yond pe rsonalit y me asures (lik e, for example, wa gein come, wealt h or 

famil y status)  could be ta ken into account as d eter minants of anti cipator y e motio ns. 
From  determina nts to behavior 
Economic models are als o ver y pre cise on the t yp eof influenc eth at dete r minants have 
on behavior. Is the re ali n ear r elatio nship or is it non-linearor even non-mo notonic?  Do 

changes in dete rminants havean imme diate impa ct or does it take someti mebefor eth e 

impact on behavior is ob servable ?  Do determin ants  reinforc eor dampen each oth er?   These 

and other prop ertie s ofd eterminants should also provide new te stabl e theor etic al predictio ns 

interesti ng for ps ycholo gists. 
Economic theor y has a te ndenc y to reformula te any t ype of behavior as the outcome of 
a decisi on proc ess (orth e  solution to  adecisio n proble m). This  idea can als o be applied to 

emotion regul ation. In W älde’s (2015) str ess model, for example, the stress ed individ ual 

follows a precis e decis io n rule  that makes he r cho osecopin g strate gies in a  s ystematic w a y. 

Gross  (2008, p. 505) w ro te: "one intr i guin g puz z le is wh y peopl e use one e moti on regula tion 

strate g y rathe r than anoth er ". The ans werwould b e that personal costs and benefits induce an 

individ ual to decide in onewa y or anoth er. Su ch a frame work allows to und ersta nd, for 

insta nce, wh y some peop le  predomi nantl y us e a pr oblem-focuse d and other s use an emotio n-

focused strat e g y to cope with str ess ( Laz arus, 199 1), or wh y so mepeopl e c hooseto  assimi late 

(conti nue goal striving) whereas oth ers choos e to  accommodate ( goal adju stment; 

Brandstä dter & Ro thermund, 2002). 
12 
But the ideath at an y t yp e ofbehavio rcan b ere fo rmula ted as the r esult of adecision 
process c an also be applie d to initi al emotional actio n tendencies and action s (see Bush man & 

Anderson, 2001; Eder & Ro thermu nd, 2013; Moors, Boddez, & DeHou we r, 2016). Fo r 

insta nce, the tendenc y to  flee characteristi cof f ear can be considered as the resu lt of a 

decisio n between fi ght a nd flight.  
Mathe m atical analy sis 
As mentioned earlie r, the  advanc es that economics  can brin g to oth er discip lin es reside 
within th efact that it reli es heavil y on mathematic al anal ysis . Lookin g at disciplines other 

than economi cs, one o f thele adin g proponents of behavioral e conomi cthe or y ar gues that 

theories develop ed in  most social sciences are wh a t could becalled "impre c ise theories" (all 

quotes in this  paragraph aref rom Ra bin, 2013). U ndertakin g emotion rese a rch followin g a 

formal appro ach would t herefo refollo w "a d esire to ex pose how <ex isti ng views>  arewron g" 

or, to put it abit morepositi vely, to  work out wha t ex istin g views a ctuall y mean. As lo n g as 

models of emoti on lack ma thematic al ri gor and p recision, it  is "just harde r  to identif y fla ws". 

Transla ting st andard ps ychologic al views into an otherwis emainstr e am ec onomic model 

allows us to "see th eir limi ts that can guide us in furtherim provem ents ".  
As an il lustration, emotional economi cs could pro videa formal anal ysis of Bech ar a 
and Dama sio 's (2005)so ma tic marker h ypoth esis . An emotio n accordin g to  their defin ition is 

"a colle ction of ch anges i n bod y and b rain  states" ( p. 339). Once a cue is per ceived, the bod y 

reacts acco rdingl y: There  are "ch anges in inte rnal mil ieu and viscera" or "c hanges in the 

musculoskeletal s yst em" (p. 339). W hen x  (and potentiall y furth er va riables )in  theuti lit y 

functio n u=(c
s weet s
-x )
 
(c
fru it
)
1-
 from above repr ese nts the state ofth ebod y ( and chan ges in this 
variable then chan geth e sta teof the bod y), such a  th eor y would provide an imm edia teand 

ver y preciseli nk betwe e n bod y states and observ able behavior.  
Conclusio n 
Economists have alwa ys been in terest ed in emotio ns. This is true for the earl y times of 
economic s when util it y was taken to desc ribe f eelin gs ofin dividuals about pleasure and pain. 

This is true forcur rent research in b ehavioral econ omic s that uses empirical  measures of 

happiness based on qu esti onnaires oron dia r y m ethods to quantif y uti lit y as  used in  

theoretical anal ys es. And  it is also true for various  detailed studies of emoti ons (e. g., re gret, 

rejoic ing, craving, str ess,  anx iety, susp ense, trust, and guilt)  and th eir ef fect on decision 

making.
From the a rtic les su rve ye d here, it seems  true that ps ycholo gic al emotion re search h as 
a strong impa ct on econo mi canal ys es of emoti ons . Many rese arch ers cite p s ycholo gic al 

evidence to motiv ate thei rformal modelling. Econ omics gains alo t f rom this transfer of 

knowledgeas certain b eh avio ral regul arit ies that c ould  not beex plained b y standard e conomic 

models can be unde rstood when emotio ns are t ake n into account. This  econ omic  resea rch on 

emotions is  also potentia ll y valuabl efor ps ycholo gists. An economic  anal ys is is called 

theoretical onl y when it i s based on a mathem atica l model. Economi cth eor y ther efor e is ver y 

stringent in makin g predi ctions and the underl yin g assumpti ons. This precisi on should bring a 

lot of potential for refinin g ps ycholo gic al th eor y. Hopefull y th is will be the case  in the futu r e. 
13 
Referenc es 
Bakke r, A. B. and D emer outi, E. (2012). Thespil lover-c rossovermodel. In  J . G. Grz yw acz  & 
E. Demerouti (Eds.)
, Ne w frontiers in wo rkand family  
(pp. 53-69). Hov e, UK: 
Ps ycholo g y Pr ess.  
Bechar a, A., & Damasio ,  A. (2005). Thesoma tic marker h ypothesis : A ne ural theor y of 
economic  de cisio n. 
Games and Economic B ehavio r, 52
, 336372. 
Becker, G. (1976). Altrui sm, egoism, and genetic f itness: Economics and sociobio log y. 
Journal of Economic Lit erature , 14
(3), 817826.  
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. (1993). Asi mple the or y o fadve rtisin g as a go od orbad. 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108
(4), 961981 . 
Becker, G. S. , & Murph y, K. M. (1988). A theor y of ratio nal addiction. 
Jou rnal of Politi cal 
Economy, 96
(4 ), 675 70 0. 
Bentham, J . (1789, 1970) . An introduction to th eprinciples of morals  and le gis lation. J . H. 
Burns & H. L. A. H art (E ds). London, UK: Athlone Press.  
Brandstä tte r, H., Güth , W , & Klie mt, H. (2010). Ps ycholo g y and economic s rath er th an 
ps ycholo g y v ersu s econo mic s: Cultu ral differenc e s but no barriers! In Len gerich et al. 

(Eds.),  
Sozialp sychologie  und Ökonomie : Beiträg e des 25. Hamburger S y mposions zur 
Methodolo gie der Sozialp sychologie
 (pp. 1137). Pa bst SciencePu bl. 
Brandts tädte r, J ., & Ro thermu nd, K. (2002). Th el if e-course  d ynamics of goal pursuit and 
goal adju stment: A two-process f rame work. 
De vel opmental Review, 22
(1 ), 117-150. 
Bushman, B. J ., & Anderson, C. A. (2001). Is it tim eto pull  theplu g on ho stile versus 
instr umenta l aggression dichotom y?  
Psychologic al Revie w, 108
(1), 273-2 79.  
Caplin, A., & Le ah y, J . (2001). Ps ycholo gic al ex pecte d utilit y th eor y and a nticipator y 
feeli n gs. 
Quarterly Journ al of Economics, 116
(1), 5579. 
Caplin, A., & Sc hotter, A . (2008). 
The foundatio ns of positiv eand normativ eeconomi cs: A 
Handbook
. Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne. 
Cla rk, A., E. Diene r, G. Yannis , & R. Luc as (200 8). La gs and le ads In life satisf actio n: A test 
of the baseline h ypothesi s. 
The Economic Journal , 118
(529), F222 F243.  
Cla rk, A., & Os wald, A. J . (1994). Unhappiness a nd unemplo yment.  
The E conomic Journal, 
104
(424), 648659.  
Diener, E., Su h, E., Luc a s,  R., & Smit h, H. L. (19 99). Subjective well -bein g: Thr ee de cad es 
of progress. 
Ps ychologic al Bulletin, 125
(2), 276302. 
Di Tella, R., R. J . MacCull och, and A. J . Oswald (2001): Prefer enc es over i nflation and 
unemplo yment: Evidenc e from surve ys o f happin ess
. Americ an E conomic Review, 
91
(1), 335-341.  
Easterli n, R. (1974). Doe s economi c growth impr ove the human lot? So meempirical 
evidence. In David , P.A. and Re der, M.W . (Eds.), 
Nati ons and household s in economic 
growth :Essays in honour of Moses Abramowitz
 (pp. 89125). New York: Academic 
Press. 
Easterli n, R. A. (2001). Income  and happin ess: Towards aunifie d theor y. 
E conomic Journal, 
111
, 465 484. 
Eder, A., & Roth ermund,  K. (2013). Emoti onal act ion: An ideomotor model. In C. 
Mohi yeddini, M. E ysenc k, & S. Ba uer (Eds.), 
Psy chology of emotio ns 
(pp. 11-38). 
Happa ge, NY: NovaSc ie nce Pu blishers.  
Edge worth, F. (1881, 19 67). Mathematical ps ychi cs: An essa y on the appli catio n of 
mathematic s to the moral sciences. N ew York: Au gustus Kelle y Pu blishers.  
14 
Fehr, E., & Sc hmidt, K. ( 1999). A theor y of fairn e ss, competitio n, and cooperation. 
The 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114
(3), 817868 . 
Geanakoplos, J ., Pe arc e, D., & Stac chetti,  E. (198 9). Ps ycholo gic al games and sequential 
ratio nalit y. 
Gam es and E conomic Beha vior, 1
(1), 6079. 
Gross , J . (2008). Emotion Regula tion. In M. Le wi s, J . Havil and-J ones, & L. Feldman Bar rett , 
(Eds.), 
Handbook of e moti on
 (pp. 497-512). New York: Guilford Press.  
Gul, F. (1991). A th eor y of disappointment aversi on. 
Econometr ica, 59
(3 ), 66786. 
Gul, F., & W . Pesendor fer (2008). The case  for mi ndless economic s. In A. Ca plin & A. 
Schotter (Eds. ), 
The foun datio ns of positiv eand normativ eecono mics: A H andbook
, 
Ox ford Sc holarship  Onli ne: October2011.  
Harris, C.  (2010), Fe elings of D re ad and Inte rtem poral Ch oice, J . Behav. Dec. Ma kin g (2010 ).  

Helli well , J ., La yard, R. , & Sachs, J . (2013). 
Worl d happiness report
. United Nations.  
He yl en, J ., Verdu yn, Ph ., Van Mech elen, I. & Ceul emans, E., 2015, Va riabilit y in an ger 
intensit y p rofiles: Str uctu re and pr edictive basis . 
C ognitio n and Emoti on, 29
, 168177.  
J evons, W . (1871, 1957). 
The theory of politic al economy
. H. Stanle y J evo ns (Ed). New York: 
Kelle y & Millma n.  
Kahneman, D., & A. Tve rsk y (1979). Pr ospect the or y: An anal ysis of de cisio n under risk. 
Econometr ica, 47
(2 ), 26 3291. 
Kahneman, D., W akk er, P. & Sarin, R. (1997). Ba ck to Bentham?  Ex ploratio ns of 
ex perienced uti lit y. 
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112
(2), 375406 . 
Laibson, D. (2001). A cue-theor y of consumptio n. 
Quarterly Journal of Ec onomics, 116
(1), 
81 119. 
Laz a rus, R.  S. (1991). 
E motion and adaptati on
.New York: Ox ford Univ ersit y Press.  
Loe wenste in, G. (1987). Anticipation and the valu ation of dela yed consumpti on. 
The 
Economic Journal, 97
(38 7), 666684. 
Loe wenste in, G. (2000). Emotio ns in economic  theor y and e conomic beha vio r. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 90
(2), 426 432.  
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1982). Re gret theor y:  An alternative theo r y of ratio nal choice 
under unce rtaint y. 
Econo mic Journal, 92
(368), 80 524. 
Loomes, G., & Su gden, R. (1986). Disappointm ent and d yn amic consis tenc y in  choice und er 
uncertaint y. 
Re view of Economic Studies, 53
(2), 2 7182. 
Mas-Cole ll, A., W hinston, M.  D., & Gr een, J . R.  (1995). 
Microe conomic th eory
. Ox ford, UK: 
Ox ford Universit y Press.  
Moors, A., Boddez, Y., & De Houwe r, J . (2016). The power o f goal-dir ect ed process es in th e 
causation of emotional a nd other acti ons. Manusc ript submitted forpubli cati on.  
Ohtake, F. (2012). Unemplo yme nt and h appiness. 
Japan Labor Review,
 9(2 ), 5974.  
Rabin, M. (1993). Incorp orating fairness in to game  theor y and economi cs. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 83
(5), 12811302. 
Rabin, M. (2013). An ap proach to  incorpo ratin g p s ycholo g y in to economi c s. 
Americ an 
Economic Re view, 103
(3 ), 617622. 
Samuelson, P.  (1947). 
Foundations of economic analysis: Harvard econo m icstu dies
. 
Cambridge: H arva rd Uni versit y Pr ess.  
Sobel, J . (2005). Interd ep endent pre fer ences and r eciprocit y. 
Journal of Ec onomic Literature, 
43
(2), 392436.  
Ste venson, B., & W olf ers, J . (2008). Economic gr owth and su bjecti vewell -being: 
Reassessin g th eEasterlin  paradox . 
Brookings Papers on Economic A ctivity
, 39(1), 1-88.  
Sti gler, G. (1950 a). The development of utili t y T heor y. I. 
Journal of Politi cal Economy, 
58
(4), 307327.  
Varia n, H. (1992). 
Micro economic analysis 
(3
rd
 ed.). Norton, New York.  
15 
W älde, K. (2015). Stress and copin g: An economi capproa ch. Mime o Gute nberg Universit y 
Mainz , available at 
www .waelde. com/ pub
. 
W älde, K. (2016). Emotion Research in E conomics. CESi fo W orking Pa per No. 5982, J ul y 
2016. 












˚o]˚À˚UıZ˚„˚(}„˚vX
ÀvµPZŸ„˚˚v~íõõì















Zµuv›]ıo]’}v˚}(ıZ˚›]oo„’˚’’˚vı]oı}ıZ˚(µvı]}v]vP}(ıZ˚˚}v}u]ÁZ˚˚oXv}v˚Zvˆ]ı
}µoˆ˚ˆ˚(]v˚ˆ’ıZ˚’ı}l}(v}Áo˚ˆP˚}„’l]oo’ıZııl˚›„ı}(ıZ˚›„}ˆµı]}v(µvı]}v~˚l˚„U
}vıZ˚}ıZ˚„Zvˆ]ı}µoˆ˚ˆ˚(]v˚ˆ’ıZ˚›]ıÇı}ˆ›ıvˆˆ˚oÁ]ıZ’]ıµı]}v’]vÁZ]ZıZ˚„˚]’
ZvP]vP]v˚vÀ]„}vu˚vı~ZµoıÌŸ˚o’}vrZ˚o›’Xv˚}(ıZ˚Zvv˚o’ıZ„}µPZÁZ]Z}v˚v
ˆ˚À˚o}›Z˚„µuv›]ıo]’v}vr’Z}}o]vP]vÀ˚’ıu˚vı’X}„]v’ıv˚Á˚v}’˚„À˚ıÁ]v’ÁZ}Á˚vı
ı}ıZ˚’u˚’Z}}oUÇ˚ıZÀ˚ˆ]((˚„˚vıZµuv›]ıoXZ˚ÇuÇZÀ˚Z}’˚vı}ul˚]vÀ˚’ıu˚vı’]v
}ıZ˚„}u›}v˚vı’}(ıZ˚]„Zµuv›]ıoˆ]((˚„˚vıoÇ~˚XPXU’›˚]o]Ì]vP]v’}u˚’µi˚ı’U}„Á}„l]vP
Z„ˆXZı}µoˆˆ„]À˚}v˚›˚„’}vı}ul˚ˆ˚]’]}vı}ˆ˚À˚o}›Z˚„’˚o(ıvÇı]u˚}(Z˚„o](˚MXv
}ıZ˚„Á}„ˆ’ÁZ]ZÀ„]o˚’ıZı„˚Á]ıZ]vµ’vˆˆ}]v(oµ˚v˚µ’ı}ıl˚ıZ˚ˆ˚]’]}vı}ˆ˚À˚o}›}µ„
Zµuv›]ıoMXZıul˚’›˚„’}v˚v˚(]ı}(Z˚„íìì9›}ı˚vı]oMXZıul˚’›˚„’}vˆ˚À]ı]vP
(„}uZ˚„›ıZ(}„ÁZ]Z’Z˚]’]vı˚vˆ˚ˆMX˚ı[’]uP]v˚(}„]v’ıv˚ıZ˚’˚}(}W}u]vPı}ıZ]’
Á}„oˆV}Á’P]À˚vP](ıXZı]’UıZ˚u]’’]}vZ˚]’’µ››}’˚ˆı}ˆ}ıZ„}µPZ}µıZ]’o](˚XıZ˚u]’’]}v
ıZıP]À˚’Z]uu}„˚ıZv]ııl˚’(„}uZ]u]vı˚„u}(˚v˚„PÇXZ]’}µoˆ˚ıZ˚’˚](vˆ}voÇ](]ı}µoˆ
}]v]ˆ˚Á]ıZZ]’›’’]}vXvıZ]’’˚}Á}µoˆ˚o˚ı}µ’˚íìì9}(Z]’›}ı˚vı]oı}(µo(]oZ]’u]’’]}vU
’]v˚]ı]’Z]’›’’]}v]vıZ˚’u˚ı]u˚XZ˚‰µ˚’ı]}vıZı}v˚v’lv}ÁU]’Z}Á}µoˆ}(]vˆ}µı
ÁZıZ]’](ı]’MZı„˚ıZ˚}vˆ]ı]}v’ıZı](’ı]’(]˚ˆ}„„˚Pµoı˚ˆ}µoˆZ˚o›Z]u’}oÀ˚ıZ]’›µÌÌo˚MX
}v’Á˚„ıZ˚’˚‰µ˚’ı]}v’}v˚’Z}µoˆıl˚ˆ˚˚›o}}lııZ˚]vv˚„À„]o˚’ıZıZÀ˚ˆ]„˚ı˚((˚ı
}vıZ˚}v˚[’]o]ıÇı}(]vˆvˆ›„ı]˚ÁZı’Z˚]’’µ››}’˚ˆı}˚X
}u]vPlı}ıZ˚ıÁ]v’˚Æu›o˚UıZ˚’ı„]PZı(}„Á„ˆ‰µ˚’ı]}vÁ˚v’l]’ÁZÇ˚À˚v˚ıÁ˚˚vıÁ]v’
ıZ˚„˚„˚ˆ]((˚„˚v˚’]vıZ˚˚ZÀ]}µ„ı}Á„ˆ’ıZ˚˚vÀ]„}vu˚vıvˆıZ˚]„µu’ıv˚’’µ„„}µvˆ]vP
ıZ˚uX]v˚Á˚vv}ı}vı„}oıZ˚˚vÀ]„}vu˚vıÁ˚„˚o]À]vP]vUıZ˚}voÇıZ]vPÁ˚ZÀ˚}vı„}o}v]’
}µ„„˚’›}v’˚ı}ÁZı]’Z››˚v]vPı}µ’XZ˚›]ıÇı}}À˚„}u˚Zoo˚vP˚’Á˚(˚U’}oÀ˚ˆ]oÇ
›„}o˚u’}„˚À˚v›ov(}„˚ıı˚„(µıµ„˚ˆ˚›˚vˆ’}vıZ˚(]„’ı›o˚}vZ}ÁÁ˚›˚„˚]À˚}µ„’˚oÀ˚’
(]vPıZ˚’˚ˆ]((˚„˚vı]„µu’ıv˚’Xv}ıZ˚„Á}„ˆ’ı}ÁZ]Z˚Æı˚vˆÁ˚˚o]˚À˚Á˚v(˚Zoo˚vP˚’
}„›ov(}„v˚Á}i˚ı]À˚’X(›˚}›o˚(}„˚Æu›o˚ˆ}µı}µııZ˚]„›]o]ı]˚’ı}Z]˚À˚P]À˚vP}oU
ˆ˚’›]ı˚Z˚v}Áo˚ˆP˚ıZ˚Ç›}’’˚’’UıZ˚ÇuÇ(]oı}›µı]ı]vı}›„ı]˚vˆ’µ’˚‰µ˚vıoÇv}ı„]ZıZ˚]„
}i˚ı]À˚X’˚}vˆ›}]vıÁZ]Zv]v(oµ˚v˚}µ„˚ZÀ]}µ„ÇZvP]vP]ı}„]u›„}À]vP]ı]’ıZ˚
v}Áo˚ˆP˚Á˚ZÀ˚‰µ]„˚ˆ}„ZÀ˚ı}‰µ]„˚X(}v˚˚o]˚À˚’’Z˚v]u›„}À˚Z˚„o](˚}„}›˚Á]ıZ
’}u˚Zoo˚vP˚’UıZ˚v˚Æı’ı˚›’Z˚Z’ı}ˆ}]’ı}˚‰µ]›Z˚„’˚o(Á]ıZıZ˚lv}Áo˚ˆP˚ıZı’Z˚v˚˚ˆ’ı}ˆ}
’}U](’Z˚ˆ}˚’v[ıZÀ˚]ıo„˚ˆÇXv}Áo˚ˆP˚ˆ}˚’v[ı}voÇZ˚o››˚}›o˚o˚„vv˚Á’l]oo’U]ıo’}((˚ı’
ıZ˚]„˚o]˚(’}µııZ˚u’˚oÀ˚’]vˆ]„˚ıoÇıZ„}µPZ˚vZv]vPıZ˚]„’˚o(r}v(]ˆ˚v˚X}„˚}À˚„UıZ˚}voÇ
›}’’]]o]ıÇ(}„vÇ}v˚ı}(]vˆ}µııZ˚ıZ]vPıZıv›’’]}vı˚Z]u}„Z˚„U]’ı}˚Æ›˚„]˚v˚’˚À˚„oıZ]vP’
vˆo˚„vu}„˚}µıZ]u’˚o(}„Z˚„’˚o(UÁZ]Z˚vˆ’µ›ı}˚v}ıZ˚„Zvv˚oıZ„}µPZÁZ]Z
v}Áo˚ˆP˚}›˚„ı˚’]vıZ]’›„}˚’’Xv˚}ıZ˚„›}]vı}(ıZ˚˚‰µı]}v}µoˆ˚ıZ˚Àoµ˚}v˚vP]À˚ı}
ıZ˚lv}Áo˚ˆP˚’Z˚Z’ı}‰µ]„˚Xµ››}’˚(}„˚Æu›o˚ıZı}ˆ]ˆ(}µvˆZ]’P](ıX]’›˚„˚›ı]}v
}µıZ]u’˚o(]’ıZıZ˚v›„ı]˚Z]’P](ıX˚ıZ˚Z’ı}o˚„v’}u˚v˚Á’l]oo’ı}ˆ}]ıX(]ıZ››˚v’
ıZıZ˚(]vˆ’ı„]v]vPıZıvZ˚o›Z]uo˚„vıZ˚’˚v˚Á’l]oo’µıZ˚ˆ}˚’v[ıÀoµ˚ıZ]’ı„]v]vP’]ı]’
’µ››}’˚ˆı}˚Àoµ˚ˆZ˚}µoˆu]’’ıZ˚}››}„ıµv]ıÇı}ıl˚›„ı}v]ıX





}]vPıZ]vPÁ]ıZ›’’]}v]vˆ}v˚u]’’]}v}„](ı

µ’]vPíìì9}ı˚vı]o
˚›˚vˆ’}v

µ„˚o]˚(’}µı}µ„’˚oÀ˚’vˆ›˚„˚]À˚ˆ’˚o(r˚((]Ç
((˚ı’
˚o]˚(’
v}Áo˚ˆP˚Á˚‰µ]„˚}„ZÀ˚ı}‰µ]„˚~]vÀ˚’ı]v}µ„’˚oÀ˚’
˚›˚vˆ’}v

}Áˆ}Á˚Àoµ˚ıZ]’v}Áo˚ˆP˚


=


vÀ]„}vu˚vııZı((˚ı’}µ„µ’˚}(íìì9}(}µ„}ı˚vı]o


v˚›˚„’}vZ’(}µvˆZ˚„P](ıU’Z˚v’ı„ıµ’]vPZ˚„íìì9›}ı˚vı]oUı}ˆ}]vP’}UıZ]’oıı˚„Z’ı}
˚ˆ˚›˚vˆ˚vı}v˚o]˚(’Uv}Áo˚ˆP˚UıZ˚Ào}„]’ı]}v}(ıZ]’lv}Áo˚ˆP˚›oµ’ıZ˚˚vÀ]„}vu˚vı]vÁZ]Z
ıZ˚›˚„’}v]’o]À]vPX’Á˚v’˚˚(„}uıZ˚’l˚ıZ}À˚Uv}Áo˚ˆP˚›oÇ’„}o˚]vu}„˚ıZv}v˚’ı˚›
X]„’ıUı}(]vˆ}v˚[’](ıU}v˚Z’ı}˚Æ›˚„]˚v˚o}ı}(ıZ]vP’vˆu}’ı}(ooo˚„v}µıZ˚„’˚o(X˚}vˆU
Ço˚„v]vPu}„˚}µı}v˚’˚o(U›˚„’}vP]v’u}„˚’˚o(r}v(]ˆ˚v˚ÁZ]Z((˚ı’ˆ]„˚ıoÇZ˚„
›˚„˚›ı]}v}(Z]˚À]vPZ˚„P}o’Xv˚’Z˚ˆ˚]ˆ˚’ı}}u›o]’ZıZ˚}i˚ı]À˚’Z˚Z’(]Æ˚ˆU’Z˚
v˚˚ˆ’ı}µ’˚ı}}o}Ævˆ’l]oo’UvˆZ˚„˚P]vv}Áo˚ˆP˚Z’ı}›oÇ„}o˚X}]ooµ’ı„ı˚˚ıı˚„ıZ˚
]ˆ˚}(P]À]vPıZ˚lv}Áo˚ˆP˚Àoµ˚Uo˚ı[’’µ››}’˚ıZı’}u˚}v˚ˆÀ]’˚ˆ}ı}„˚ˆ’}u˚}}l’ı}
˚vZv˚Z]’’l]oo’vˆ›„ı]˚Z]’P](ıUÇ˚ı}ˆ}˚’v[ıÀoµ˚ıZ˚(ııZııZ˚’˚}}l’Á]ooZ˚o›Z]uo˚„v
v˚ÁıZ]vP’XZµ’U˚À˚v](ıZ˚]v(}„uı]}v]’À]oo˚U](ıZ˚›˚„’}vˆ}˚’v[ıÀoµ˚]ıU]ıÁ}µoˆ˚}u˚
Á}„ıZo˚’’XZ˚o’ıÀ„]o˚ÁZ]Z}µoˆZÀ˚’]Pv](]vı]v(oµ˚v˚}vıZ˚›}’’]]o]ıÇı}µ’˚}v˚[’íìì9
›}ı˚vı]o]’ıZ˚˚vÀ]„}vu˚vıXZı]’UZvP]vP˚o]˚(’vˆ›˚„˚›ı]}v’}µı}v˚’˚o(}v˚]’v[ı˚v}µPZX
˚}›o˚ZÀ˚ı}„˚]v(}„˚ıZıZvP˚}À˚„vˆ}À˚„X}Á˚À˚„U](ıZ˚˚vÀ]„}vu˚vı]vÁZ]ZıZ˚›˚„’}v]’
o]À]vPZ’P„˚ı]u›ı}vZ˚„U]ıÁ}µoˆ˚ˆ]((]µoıı}ul˚ıZ˚ZvP˚’Z˚Ávı’Ç’ıÇ]vP]vıZ˚
’u˚›o˚X}„]v’ıv˚Uo˚ı[’’µ››}’˚ıZı›˚„’}vÁvı’ı}˚ıı˚„Z˚„o]À]vP]„µu’ıv˚’UÇ˚ı’Z˚]’
(}„˚ˆı}Z˚„˚À˚„ÇˆÇıZı’Z˚Á}v[ı˚o˚ı}ˆ}]ıU}„ıZı’Z˚]’v[ıv˚Æ˚›ı]}vvˆ’Z˚]’
}vˆ˚uv˚ˆı}o]À˚o]l˚Z˚„›„˚vı’ˆ}}„Z˚„}ıZ˚„(u]oÇu˚u˚„’XvıZ]’’˚U˚À˚v](ıZ˚›˚„’}vZ’
’ı„}vP˚o]˚(}µıZ˚„’µ˚’’Uvˆˆ}˚’ÁZı˚À˚„]ı]’v˚˚ˆ˚ˆı}˚ˆ}v˚ı}]u›„}À˚Z˚„o](˚U’Z˚Á]oo
ZÀ˚ı}(˚ıZ]’l]vˆ}(˚vÀ]„}vu˚vıZoo˚vP˚’UÁZ]Z]v’}u˚’˚’}µoˆ˚’ı„}vP˚v}µPZıZı’Z˚
Á}v[ıZ]˚À˚Z˚„P}oX
ıZ˚uı]o}ˆ˚oW
˚ı[’(]„’ı’›o]ııZ˚ˆ]((˚„˚vı˚o˚u˚vı’}(ıZ]’u}ˆ˚o}vıÁ}›„ı’Xv˚v˚˚ˆ’(]„’ıı}(]vˆZ]’}„Z˚„](ıU
ÁZ]Zvˆ]„˚ıoÇ˚(µvı]}v}(v}Áo˚ˆP˚X
~ZÀ˚ı}ıZ]vl}µı}ıZ˚„›}’’]o˚À„]o˚’X

A(~U
Z˚„˚U„˚(˚„’ı}ıZ˚](ıvˆı}v}Áo˚ˆP˚X
Z˚’˚}vˆ›„ı}v˚„v’ıZ˚íìì9›}ı˚vı]o˚‰µı]}vW
A~~
l
””À=
X

Z˚„˚]’ıZ˚ˆ˚›˚vˆ˚vıÀ„]o˚WıZ˚}ı˚vı]oU
W„˚(˚„’ı}˚o]˚(’U]ııl˚’ıZ˚Àoµ˚’}(ì](ıZ˚›˚„’}vZ’v}›}’]ı]À˚˚o]˚(’}µıZ˚„›]o]ıÇı}
ZvP˚Z˚„]„µu’ıv˚’Uvˆí](ıZ˚›˚„’}v˚o]˚À˚’]vZ˚„’˚o(X
W]’ıZ˚v}Áo˚ˆP˚ıZı}v˚’Z}µoˆ‰µ]„˚]v}„ˆ˚„ı}o˚„vv˚Á’l]oo’U
c~rLU=LUÁZ]Zu˚v’ıZı
ıZ˚u}„˚Á˚o˚„vıZ˚Z]PZ˚„]’}µ„›„}]o]ıÇı}µ’˚}µ„íìì9›}ı˚vı]oUvˆ˚vZv˚}µ„
’˚o(r}v(]ˆ˚v˚ÁZ]Z((˚ı’ˆ]„˚ıoÇ}µ„’˚o(r›˚„˚›ı]}vvˆ˚o]˚(’}µı}µ„›]o]ı]˚’XZ˚]vÀ˚„’˚
˚((˚ıÁ}µoˆ˚ı}o}’˚v}Áo˚ˆP˚˚µ’˚}(ıZ˚(ı}(P˚ıı]vP}oˆ˚„U}„iµ’ı˚µ’˚Á˚’ı}››˚ˆ
o˚„v]vPX
W]’Z}ÁÁ˚Àoµ˚ıZ˚v}Áo˚ˆP˚ıZıÁ˚v˚˚ˆvˆÁZ]Z]’À]oo˚Xııl˚’ıZ˚Àoµ˚’ìÁZ˚vÁ˚
ˆ}v[ıP]À˚]ı]u›}„ıv˚vˆí}ıZ˚„Á]’˚X
W„˚(o˚ı’ıZ˚˚vÀ]„}vu˚vı]vÁZ]ZıZ˚›˚„’}vo]À˚’Xı}µoˆıl˚›}’]ı]À˚}„v˚Pı]À˚’]PvU]ı]’
]u›}„ıvıı}v}ı]˚ıZı˚À˚v](˚]ıZ˚„}(ıZ˚}ıZ˚„À„]o˚’ıl˚’ıZ˚Àoµ˚}(ìıZ˚˚vÀ]„}vu˚vıÁ]oo
’ı]ooZÀ˚v˚((˚ı}vıZ˚µ’˚}(}v˚›}ı˚vı]o~v˚Pı]À˚oÇ}„›}’]ı]À˚oÇX
~ˆ}v[ılv}ÁÁZıÀoµ˚’
’Z}µoˆıZ]’À„]o˚ıl˚YXÀ˚ı}ıZ]vl}µı]ıX

}vı„}o˚o]˚(’vˆ˚o(r˚((]ÇW
vv„ı]o˚Á„]ıı˚vÇv]˚o˚„À}v˚Uv]˚o˚„ı]’ı]}Uv˚X˚„„Ç~îììòU}µııZ˚’˚o(r˚((]Ç
vˆˆµoı’ˆ˚À˚o}›u˚vıUıZ˚Ç’l˚vı„o‰µ˚’ı]}v^Zı˚vo˚’u˚u˚„’}(}µ„’›˚]˚’ı}
}vı„]µı˚ı}›ov(}„ıZ˚}µ„’˚}(ıZ˚]„}Ávˆ˚À˚o}›u˚vıMXZı„˚ıZ˚’]›’ÇZ}o}P]o
]vP„˚ˆ]˚vı’ıZı˚vo˚›˚}›o˚u}„˚’}ıZv}ıZ˚„’]vıZ˚v]uol]vPˆ}uı}ı’v]vı˚vı]}voU
µ’oP˚vı’MXZ]’‰µ˚’ı]}v’ıZ˚Ç’Ç]’˚vı„oı}ıZ˚ˆ˚’]Pv}(]vı˚„À˚vı]}v’ıZı˚u›}Á˚„›˚}›o˚
ı}P]v}vı„}o}À˚„ıZ˚]„o]À˚’X˚}›o˚’[]o]ıÇı}ˆ˚o]˚„ı˚}vıZ˚›’ıvˆ(µıµ„˚U}u]v˚ˆÁ]ıZıZ˚]„
›]ıÇı}(}„u’˚v’˚}(’˚o(vˆ’}]o]ˆ˚vı]ıÇU˚vo˚’ıZ˚uı}’˚o˚ıvˆ’Z›˚ıZ˚˚vÀ]„}vu˚vı
ıZ˚Ç˚v}µvı˚„Uˆ˚À˚o}›’l]oo’ı}u˚˚ı(µıµ„˚Zoo˚vP˚’U›µ„’µ˚›˚„’}vo]u’UvˆıZ˚„˚Ç(µvı]}v’
µ’oP˚vı’X~v]˚o˚„À}v˚Uv]˚o˚„ı]’ı]}Uv˚X˚„„ÇîììòX}„ˆ]vPı}~l]vv˚„íõõòU
}vÀ˚„P]vPo]v˚’}(„˚’˚„Z’µPP˚’ııZııZ˚’µ’˚ı}((µıµ„˚}„]˚vı˚ˆ˚o]˚(’ıZı]’u}’ı˚vı„oı}
›˚„’}vo]ıÇ(µvı]}v]vP„}’’ˆµoıZ}}ˆ]’˚o]˚(’]v}v˚[’›]ıÇı}}vı„}o’]Pv](]vıo](˚˚À˚vı’Xv˚
’˚ı}(˚o]˚(’}v˚„v’ıZ˚ˆ˚P„˚˚ı}ÁZ]ZıZ˚µ’˚’}(˚À˚vı’„˚U]v›„]v]›o˚Uµvˆ˚„›˚}›o˚’[}vı„}o
’}››}’˚ˆı}˚]vPıZ˚„˚’µoı}(µv}vı„}ooo˚˚Æı˚„vo(}„˚’~}ıı˚„UíõòòX’˚}vˆ’›˚ı}(
}vı„}o˚o]˚(’]vÀ}oÀ˚’›˚„˚›ı]}v’}(}v˚[’›˚„’}vo›]ıÇı}˚Æ˚µı˚}µ„’˚’}(ı]}vı}}›˚Á]ıZ
˚À˚vı’X

˚„˚]À˚ˆ’˚o(r˚((]ÇW
˚„˚]À˚ˆ’˚o(r˚((]Ç„˚(˚„’ı}}µ„iµˆPu˚vı’}(ÁZıÁ˚ıZ]vlÁ˚vvˆv[ıˆ}Uu}„˚(}„uooÇU
’˚o(r˚((]Ç„˚(˚„’ı}}µ„’˚v’˚}(}v(]ˆ˚v˚vˆ}u›˚ı˚v˚U‰µo](]˚ˆÇ’›˚](]ˆ˚uvˆ’vˆ
(˚ıµ„˚’}(ıZ˚’]ıµı]}v]vÁZ]Z’˚o(r˚((]ÇiµˆPu˚vı’„˚ı]Àı˚ˆXZ˚vı]Àı˚ˆvˆıZ˚
’’˚’’u˚vı]’^v_UZ]PZ’˚o(r˚((]ÇÁ]ooo˚ˆı}v˚Áo˚À˚o’}(o˚„v]vPvˆ}u›o]’Zu˚vı~
vˆµ„íõóóríõôòríõõóXZ˚v›˚}›o˚(˚˚oıZ˚]„ı]}v’v]v(oµ˚v˚}µı}u˚’}(P]À˚v’]ıµı]}vU
ıZ˚Ç(˚˚oıZııZ˚ÇZÀ˚’˚v’˚}(›}Á˚„}„}vı„}o}À˚„ÁZıZ››˚v’]vıZ˚Á}„oˆX˚}›o˚[’(˚˚o]vP’
vˆı]}v’„˚’˚ˆu}„˚}vÁZııZ˚Ç˚o]˚À˚ı}˚ı„µ˚„ıZ˚„ıZvÁZıuÇ}„uÇv}ı˚
}i˚ı]À˚oÇı„µ˚Xv(ı˚o]˚(’„˚’}›}Á˚„(µoÁZ˚v„˚oı˚ˆı}ıZ˚„]PZı(˚˚o]vP’XZ˚„˚„˚›o˚vıÇ}(
’ı}„]˚’„˚›}„ı]vP}µıu˚vvˆÁ}u˚vÁZ}Z˚o˚ˆıZ˚u’˚oÀ˚’}voÇÇˆ}›ı]vP›}’]ı]À˚˚o]˚(’
’’}]ı˚ˆÁ]ıZıZ˚i}Ç}(˚]vPZ˚oıZÇP]v~(˚˚o]vP’UıZ˚Ç˚((˚ı]À˚oÇZ˚o˚ˆıZ˚u’˚oÀ˚’oıZ}µPZ
ıZ˚ÇZˆ˚˚vˆ]Pv}’˚ˆÁ]ıZ]vµ„o˚ˆ]’˚’˚’X
˚o(r˚((]Ç˚o]˚(’„˚}(›„ı]µo„]u›}„ıv˚ı}]vı˚vı]}voı]}v(}„ï„˚’}v’W
]„’ı’˚o(r˚((]Ç›˚„˚›ı]}v’ˆ]„˚ıoÇ}vı„]µı˚ı}ˆ˚]’]}v’Uı]}v’vˆ˚Æ›˚„]˚v˚’X˚}›o˚ÁZ}
iµˆP˚ıZ˚u’˚oÀ˚’Z]PZoÇ˚((]]}µ’UÁ]oo˚u}„˚ı˚u›ı˚ˆı}›µ„’µ˚Zoo˚vP˚’Uvˆu}„˚›˚„’]’ı˚vı}v
ı’l’~vˆµ„íõõó
˚}vˆU’˚o(r˚((]Ç›˚„˚›ı]}v’uÇu}ˆ˚„ı˚ıZ˚]u›ı}(}ıZ˚„›’ÇZ}o}P]ou˚Zv]’u’}v
ˆ˚À˚o}›u˚vıo}µı}u˚’U’˚Æ›„˚’’˚ˆ›„˚À]}µ’oÇU›˚}›o˚‰µ]„˚’l]oo’ı}Z]˚À˚P„˚ı˚„’µ˚’’}v
P]À˚vı’lUµı](ıZ˚Çˆ}µııZ˚]„›]o]ı]˚’UıZ˚ÇuÇ(]oı}›µııZ˚]„lv}Áo˚ˆP˚]vı}›„ı]˚Uˆ˚’›]ı˚
ˆ˚‰µı˚]v’ı„µı]}v’X
Z]„ˆU˚o(r˚((]Ç˚o]˚(’]v(oµ˚v˚}ıZ˚„}Pv]ı]À˚vˆ˚u}ı]}vo(ı}„’ıZı]vıµ„v}vı„]µı˚ı}
›˚„(}„uv˚X(›„ı]µo„]u›}„ıv˚„˚o]vl’(„}u’˚o(r˚((]Çı}P}o’˚ıı]vP~µ„„Çvˆ˚’ıíõõïU
l˚vˆıZvíõõìX˚}›o˚Á]ıZZ]PZ˚„˚((]Ç˚o]˚(’ı˚vˆı}’˚ıu}„˚Zoo˚vP]vPP}o’vˆ
„˚u]v}uu]ıı˚ˆı}ıZ˚]„P}o’UıZ˚’˚P}o’u˚Zv]’u’U]vıµ„v}vı„]µı˚ı}u}ı]Àı]}vvˆ
Z]˚À˚u˚vı~vˆµ„vˆl˚îììïX
vˆµ„~íõõðˆ˚(]v˚ˆ’˚o(r˚((]Ç’^›˚}›o˚[’˚o]˚(’}µııZ˚]„›]o]ı]˚’ı}›„}ˆµ˚ˆ˚’]Pvı˚ˆ
o˚À˚o’}(›˚„(}„uv˚ıZı˚Æ˚„]’˚]v(oµ˚v˚}À˚„˚À˚vı’ıZı((˚ııZ˚]„o]À˚’_X˚}›o˚Á]ıZ^Z]PZ
’’µ„v˚]vıZ˚]„›]o]ı]˚’_W
íX

››„}Zˆ]((]µoıı’l’’Zoo˚vP˚’ı}˚u’ı˚„˚ˆ
îX

˚ıZoo˚vP]vPP}o’vˆu]vı]v’ı„}vP}uu]ıu˚vıı}ıZ˚u
ïX

˚]PZı˚v}„’µ’ı]vıZ˚]„˚((}„ı’]vıZ˚(˚}((]oµ„˚’}„’˚ıl’
ðX

ıı„]µı˚(]oµ„˚ı}]v’µ((]]˚vı˚((}„ı}„ˆ˚(]]˚vılv}Áo˚ˆP˚vˆ’l]oo’ÁZ]Z„˚‰µ]„o˚
ñX

››„}ZıZ„˚ı˚v]vP’]ıµı]}v’Á]ıZ’’µ„v˚ıZııZ˚Çv˚Æ˚„]’˚}vı„}o}À˚„ıZ˚u
v}vı„’ıU›˚}›o˚^ÁZ}ˆ}µııZ˚]„›]o]ı]˚’_W
íX

ZÇÁÇ(„}uı’l’ıZ˚ÇÀ]˚Á’›˚„’}voıZ„˚ı’
îX

À˚o}Á’›]„ı]}v’vˆÁ˚l}uu]ıu˚vıı}P}o’ıZ˚ÇZ}}’˚ı}›µ„’µ˚
ïX

Á˚oo}v›˚„’}voˆ˚(]]˚v]˚’U}’ıo˚’ıZ˚ÇÁ]oo˚v}µvı˚„Uvˆool]vˆ’}(ˆÀ˚„’˚}µı}u˚’U
„ıZ˚„ıZv}v˚vı„ı]vP}vZ}Áı}›˚„(}„u’µ˚’’(µooÇ
ðX

ol˚vıZ˚]„˚((}„ı’vˆP]À˚µ›‰µ]loÇ]vıZ˚(˚}(ˆ]((]µoı]˚’
ñX

„˚’o}Áı}„˚}À˚„ıZ˚]„’˚v’˚}(˚((]Ç(}oo}Á]vP(]oµ„˚}„’˚ıl’
òX

oo˚’ÇÀ]ı]uı}’ı„˚’’vˆˆ˚›„˚’’]}v

vˆµ„~íõóóVíõõðˆ˚’„]˚ˆ(}µ„u]v’}µ„˚’}(]v(oµ˚v˚ÇÁZ]Z›˚„’}v[’’˚o(r˚((]Ç]’
ˆ˚À˚o}›˚ˆvˆu]vı]v˚ˆW
íX’ı˚„Ç˚Æ›˚„]˚v˚’U}„›˚„’}vo›˚„(}„uv˚}u›o]’Zu˚vı’U„˚ıZ˚u}’ı˚((˚ı]À˚ÁÇı}
„˚ı˚’ı„}vP’˚v’˚}(˚((]ÇX^µ˚’’˚’µ]oˆ„}µ’ı˚o]˚(]v}v˚[’›˚„’}vo˚((]ÇX]oµ„˚’
µvˆ˚„u]v˚ˆ]ıU˚’›˚]ooÇ]((]oµ„˚’}µ„˚(}„˚’˚v’˚}(˚((]Ç]’(]„uoÇ˚’ıo]’Z˚ˆ_~vˆµ„U
íõõðX
îX]„]}µ’˚Æ›˚„]˚v˚’ıZ„}µPZ}’˚„Àv˚}(’}]ou}ˆ˚o’o’}]v(oµ˚v˚}v˚[’›˚„˚›ı]}v}(
’˚o(r˚((]ÇXZ˚u}’ı]u›}„ıvı(ı}„ıZıˆ˚ı˚„u]v˚’ıZ˚’ı„˚vPıZ}(]v(oµ˚v˚}(v}’˚„À˚ˆ
’µ˚’’}„(]oµ„˚}v}v˚[’}Áv’˚o(r˚((]Ç]’ıZ˚ˆ˚P„˚˚}(’]u]o„]ıÇ˚ıÁ˚˚vıZ˚}’˚„À˚„vˆıZ˚
u}ˆ˚oW˚˚]vP›˚}›o˚’]u]o„ı}}v˚’˚o(’µ˚˚ˆÇ’µ’ı]v˚ˆ˚((}„ı„]’˚’}’˚„À˚„’[˚o]˚(’ıZııZ˚Ç
ı}}›}’’˚’’ıZ˚›]o]ı]˚’u’ı˚„}u›„o˚ı]À]ı]˚’ı}’µ˚˚ˆXÇıZ˚’u˚ı}l˚vU}’˚„À]vP
}ıZ˚„’[(]oˆ˚’›]ı˚Z]PZ˚((}„ıo}Á˚„’}’˚„À˚„’[iµˆPu˚vı’}(ıZ˚]„}Áv˚((]Çvˆµvˆ˚„u]v˚’ıZ˚]„
˚((}„ı’XZ˚]u›ı}(u}ˆ˚oo]vP}v›˚„˚]À˚ˆ’˚o(r˚((]Ç]’’ı„}vPoÇ]v(oµ˚v˚ˆÇ›˚„˚]À˚ˆ’]u]o„]ıÇ
ı}ıZ˚u}ˆ˚o’XZ˚P„˚ı˚„ıZ˚’’µu˚ˆ’]u]o„]ıÇıZ˚u}„˚›˚„’µ’]À˚„˚ıZ˚u}ˆ˚o’[’µ˚’’˚’vˆ
(]oµ„˚’X(›˚}›o˚’˚˚ıZ˚u}ˆ˚o’’À˚„Çˆ]((˚„˚vı(„}uıZ˚u’˚oÀ˚’ıZ˚]„›˚„˚]À˚ˆ’˚o(r˚((]Ç]’v}ı
uµZ]v(oµ˚v˚ˆÇıZ˚u}ˆ˚o’[˚ZÀ]}µ„vˆıZ˚„˚’µoı’]ı’›„}ˆµ˚’X~vˆµ„UíõõðXZ˚
˚vÀ]„}vu˚vı]vıZ˚›„˚À]}µ’˚‰µı]}v„˚(o˚ı’À˚„ÇÁ˚ooıZ]’’ıı˚u˚vıX
ïX˚„o}„’}]o›˚„’µ’]}vo’}((˚ı’}v˚[’›˚„˚›ı]}v}(’˚o(r˚((]ÇXı]’^ÁÇ}(’ı„˚vPıZ˚v]vP
›˚}›o˚[’˚o]˚(’ıZııZ˚ÇZÀ˚ÁZı]ııl˚’ı}’µ˚˚ˆ_~vˆµ„UíõõðX˚„o}„’}]o›˚„’µ’]}v
v›„}À]ˆ˚ı˚u›}„„Ç}}’ı]v›˚„˚]À˚ˆ]o]ıÇXZ˚v]ı]’˚((˚ı]À˚]vu}]o]Ì]vP›˚„’}vı}ı]}vU
vˆıZ˚]„ı]}v’o˚ˆı}’µ˚’’UıZ˚˚vZv˚ˆ’˚o(r˚((]ÇuÇ˚}u˚u}„˚›˚„uv˚vıX^˚}›o˚
ÁZ}„˚›˚„’µˆ˚ˆÀ˚„ooÇıZııZ˚Ç›}’’˚’’ıZ˚›]o]ı]˚’ı}u’ı˚„P]À˚vı]À]ı]˚’„˚o]l˚oÇı}
u}]o]Ì˚P„˚ı˚„˚((}„ıvˆ’µ’ı]v]ııZv](ıZ˚ÇZ„}„’˚o(rˆ}µı’vˆˆÁ˚oo}v›˚„’}voˆ˚(]]˚v]˚’
ÁZ˚v›„}o˚u’„]’˚_XZ]’]v„˚’˚’ıZ˚]„Zv˚’}(’µ˚’’Xv(}„ıµvı˚oÇU^]ı]’u}„˚ˆ]((]µoıı}]v’ı]o
Z]PZ˚o]˚(’}(›˚„’}vo˚((]ÇÇ’}]o›˚„’µ’]}vo}v˚ıZvı}µvˆ˚„u]v˚]ı•’]v˚†µv„˚o]’ı]
}}’ı’]v˚((]Ç„˚‰µ]loÇˆ]’}v(]„u˚ˆÇˆ]’››}]vı]vP„˚’µoı’}(}v˚[’˚((}„ı’_
ðX˚}›o˚o’}„˚oÇ}vıZ˚]„’}uı]}„˚u}ı]}vo’ıı˚’ÁZ˚viµˆP]vPıZ˚]„›]o]ı]˚’Xı„˚’’vˆ
ı˚v’]}v„˚]vı˚„›„˚ı˚ˆ’^’]Pv’}(Àµov˚„]o]ıÇı}›}}„›˚„(}„uv˚_~vˆµ„UíõõðXı]Pµ˚UZ˚’
vˆ›]v’Uvˆu}}ˆo’}˚((˚ı›˚„˚›ı]}v}(]o]ıÇXvˆµ„v}ı˚’UZ}Á˚À˚„UıZı]ı]’v}ııZ˚
]vı˚v’]ıÇ}(ıZ˚˚u}ı]}vo}„›ZÇ’]o„˚ı]}vıZı]’]u›}„ıvıUµı„ıZ˚„UZ}Á]ı]’›˚„˚]À˚ˆvˆ
]vı˚„›„˚ı˚ˆX˚}›o˚Á]ıZZ]PZ’˚v’˚}(’˚o(r˚((]ÇuÇ›˚„˚]À˚((˚ı]À˚„}µ’o’^v˚v˚„P]Ì]vP
(]o]ıı}„}(›˚„(}„uv˚UÁZ˚„˚’ıZ}’˚ÁZ}„˚˚’˚ıÇ’˚o(rˆ}µı’„˚P„ˆıZ˚]„„}µ’o’
ˆ˚]o]ıı}„_X
˚o]˚(’}(’˚o(r˚((]ÇÁ}„l]v}}„ˆ]vı]}vÁ]ıZ}u›}v˚vı’l]oovˆ]v˚vı]À˚ı}ıXv’uµZ’
›˚„’}vZ’}ıZıZ˚}u›}v˚vı’l]oo’v˚˚ˆ˚ˆı}’µ˚˚ˆ~ıZ„}µPZo˚„v]vP}„˚Æ›˚„]˚v˚’UvˆıZ˚
]v˚vı]À˚ı}˚vPP˚~ıZ˚ˆ˚’]„˚ı}ˆ}ÁZı’Z˚›ov’ı}ˆ}UÁZ]Zv˚„˚(o˚ı˚ˆ}vZ˚„›’’]}v]v
u}„˚P˚v˚„o’˚v’˚U’˚o(r˚((]Ç›oÇ’v]u›}„ıvı„}o˚]vˆ˚ı˚„u]v]vPÁZıı]À]ı]˚’›˚„’}vÁ]oo
Z}}’˚ı}˚vPP˚]vUZ}ÁuµZ˚((}„ııZ˚ÇÁ]oo˚Æ›˚vˆUvˆZ}Áo}vPıZı˚((}„ıÁ]oo˚’µ’ı]v˚ˆÁZ˚v
ıZ]vP’P˚ıı}µPZU]v}ıZ˚„ı˚„u’UÁZ˚vıZ˚›˚„’}v]’(˚ˆı}P]À˚u}„˚ıZvÁZı’Z˚˚Æ›˚ı’(„}uıZ˚
ı’lX
Æ›˚ıı]}v~›„ı]µo„}µ„’˚}(ı]}vÁ]oo›„}ˆµ˚˚„ı]v}µı}u˚’o}v˚Á]oov}ı›„}ˆµ˚ˆ˚’]„˚ˆ
›˚„(}„uv˚](ıZ˚}u›}v˚vı›]o]ı]˚’„˚ol]vPX}„˚}À˚„UıZ˚„˚„˚uvÇıZ]vP’ıZı›˚}›o˚v
ˆ}Á]ıZ˚„ı]vıÇ}(’µ˚’’ıZııZ˚Çˆ}v}ı›˚„(}„u˚µ’˚ıZ˚ÇZÀ˚v}]v˚vı]À˚’ı}ˆ}’}X]À˚v
››„}›„]ı˚’l]oo’vˆˆ˚‰µı˚]v˚vı]À˚’UZ}Á˚À˚„U˚((]Ç˚Æ›˚ıı]}v’„˚ui}„ˆ˚ı˚„u]vvı}(
›˚}›o˚[’Z}]˚}(ı]À]ı]˚’UZ}ÁuµZ˚((}„ııZ˚ÇÁ]oo˚Æ›˚vˆUvˆ}(Z}Áo}vPıZ˚ÇÁ]oo’µ’ı]v˚((}„ı
]vˆ˚o]vPÁ]ıZ’ı„˚’’(µo’]ıµı]}v’X~vˆµ„UíõóóX

v}Áo˚ˆP˚W

Z˚ı˚„uv}Áo˚ˆP˚Z’o„P˚’›˚ı„µu}(ˆ˚(]v]ı]}v’Xı„ı]vP(„}uıZ˚v}Áo˚ˆP˚}v˚}µoˆ
‰µ]„˚]vv˚ˆµı]}vo’Ç’ı˚u’µZ’]v’Z}}o’Uı}lv}Á]vP}v˚’˚o(Xv˚}(ıZ˚l˚Ç’›˚ı’ı}
(]vˆ]vP}v˚[’](ı]’lv}Á]vPÁZ}}v˚]’MÁZıu}ı]Àı˚’ı}ˆ}’}u˚ıZ]vPıZı}µoˆv[ıˆ}MZı
„˚ıZ˚}v˚[’’ı„˚vPıZ’vˆÁ˚lv˚’’˚’MUvˆµoı]uı˚oÇUÁZı]’˚Z›˚„’}v’µ››}’˚ˆı}ˆ}}„
}u›o]’Z]vZ˚„o](˚U]v}„ˆ˚„ı}(µo(]oZ˚„’˚o(vˆ›oÇıZ˚„}o˚’Z˚Á’ˆ˚’ı]v˚ˆı}›oÇ]vıZ˚’}]˚ıÇX
ooıZ˚’˚‰µ˚’ı]}v’ZÀ˚v}v’Á˚„’]vıZ˚ı„ˆ]ı]}vo˚ˆµı]}voo˚„v]vP’Ç’ı˚u’U’]v˚ıZ˚Ç(}µ’}v
ıZ˚‰µ˚’ı]}vWÁZıı}o˚„vvˆv}ı}vWZ}Áı}o˚„vXµ„o](˚]’„˚(o˚ı]}v}(}µ„ˆ˚]’]}v’Uˆ˚]’]}v’
Á˚uˆ˚’˚ˆ}vıZ˚lv}Áo˚ˆP˚Á˚„˚u˚u˚„˚ˆ}µıX}Á˚À˚„}µ„o˚„v]vP›]ıÇ]’v}ı(]Æ˚ˆ
vˆÁ˚vˆ„’ı]ooÇ]u›„}À˚}µ„o](˚](Á˚˚Æ›˚vˆ}µ„]o]ıÇı}o˚„vXv}ıZ˚„ı˚„u’U˚„v]vP}µı
}µ„’˚oÀ˚’vˆo˚„v]vPZ}Áı}o˚„vX




Name: Manel Tahir
Student Number: 2727672
Semester Number: 7
Degree Course:
Address: Thomas-Jefferson Straße 6, 55122 Mainz
Email Address: mtahir@students.uni-mainz.de
Master Thesis
Summer Term 2020
Psychological Capital, Subjective Well-Being, and Educational System
Friday, 15 May 2020
Chair: Macroeconomics
Professor: Klaus Wälde
Assistant : Hoang Van Khieu
Faculty of Management and Economics
Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz
Abstract
This thesis presents a theoretical context in which two important concepts are combined, namely
subjective well-being (SWB) and psychological capital. Starting from the premise that subjec-
tive well-being's improvement would inuence nations' socio-economic prosperity, and that
psychological capital is a means for its development, the present research proposes the inte-
gration of psychological capital teaching into the educational system. It begins by reviewing
the principle of subjective well-being, then identies the attributes of psychological capital by
answering the following questions: What can we do to give a sense to our lives? How should
we perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities? How should we manage our feelings
and others' feelings? Finally, a static model is proposed, which denes the best time allocation
between teaching hours of technical skills versus psychological skills at school. To conclude, a
discussion on the different cases of time allocation that depend on the elasticity of substitution
and prices is presented.
Key words : Subjective Well-being, Psychological Capital, Personal Strivings Self-Efcacy,
Optimism, Emotional-Intelligence.
Contents
Abstract
Table of Contents
List of Figures
 i
Introduction
 1
1 Subjective Well-Being
 3
1.1 Introduction
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 4
1.2 Dening subjective well being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 4
1.3 Subjectivity and objectivity in denitions of well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 5
1.4 The structure of subjective well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 6
1.4.1 The structure of affective well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 6
1.4.2 The structure of cognitive well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 8
1.5 Context theories of subjective well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 10
1.5.1 Telic theories
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 10
1.5.2 Activity theories
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 11
1.5.3 Cognitive theories
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 12
1.5.4 Temperament and personality
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 12
1.5.5 Relative standards
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 13
1.6 Conclusion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 14
2 Subjective Well-Being in Economics
 15
2.1 Introduction
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 16
2.2 The effect of income on SWB
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 17
2.3 The effect of unemployment on SWB
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 22
2.4 The effect of social relationships on SWB
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 23
2.5 The effect of Health on SWB
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 24
2.6 Other Factors
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 26
2.7 Discussion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 27
2.8 Conclusion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 28
CONTENTS
3 Psychological Capital
 29
3.1 Introduction
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 30
3.2 Predictors of well-being
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 30
3.3 Attributes of psychological capital
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 32
3.3.1 Personal striving: What can we do to give meaning to our lives?
 . . .
 32
3.3.2 Self-efcacy and optimism: How should we perceive ourselves, our
circumstances, and abilities ?
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 34
3.3.3 Emotional intelligence: How should we manage our feelings and oth-
ers' feelings?
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 38
3.4 Conclusion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 40
4 Psychological Capital in the Educational System
 42
4.1 Introduction
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 43
4.2 Static model of SWB development
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 43
4.2.1 Optimal time allocation between technical and psychological learning
skills at school
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 44
4.3 Conclusion
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 48
Conclusion
 49
References
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 50
Appendices
 54
A Appendix
 55
A.0.1 The maximisation problem
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 55
List of Figures
2.1 Average happiness (left scale) and GDP per capita, dollars, (right scale) in the
US in 1972- 2016
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 18
2.2 Self-reported life satisfaction vs GDP per capita, 2017
 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 19
2.3 Life satisfaction and income in East Germany, 1991-2001
 . . . . . . . . . . . .
 20
2.4 The relationship between income and happiness at the individual and the aggre-
gate level
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 21
i
Introduction
The basis of contemporary macroeconomic thinking is centred on solving various problems
emerging from different sectors. Whether it is a question of ensuring equity in wealth distri-
bution, providing solutions to unemployment, or health problems, etc. The model is almost
always the same, solving already existing problems. The human being, the primordial entity
around which this economic thinking revolves, has rarely been introduced as an active player
in the economic equation. The thesis starts from the assumption that nations' socio-economic
prosperity can be built on the basis of people's subjective well-being (SWB). In other words,
if people come to feel that they are living the life they have always wanted, they would play
a key role in the development of the society in various elds. Being subjectively well reects
that the person is in line with her principles, values, and objectives. It also reects the satis-
faction that she has in different domains of her life. Thus, she can be efcient in her work,
with her family, in her society, etc. The concept of subjective well-being has been studied in
several disciplines, however each one treated it through its own glasses, using it in a partial and
specic way. Psychology, for example, has been the leader in the investigation of the SWB
concept. With the goal of discovering what makes people happy, psychologists have focused
on nding the determinants of well-being from a psychological point of view. Economists, on
the other hand, have recently begun to take an interest in this concept by studying its causes
and consequences in relation to other economic subjects such as income, unemployment, or
health, assuming that the causal link can sometimes go both ways. In this thesis, the develop-
ment of SWB is proposed as a means of ensuring the prosperity of the human being as such,
as well as the socio-economic prosperity of a country. More importantly, it is proposed to use
a group of malleable and state-like psychological attributes that will be called psychological
capital, for its development. These attributes have been chosen based on the answers they of-
fer to the following questions: what can we do to give a sense to our lives? How should we
perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities? And nally, how should we manage our
feelings and others' feelings? If it is assumed that people are able to live in harmony with their
principles, values and potentials, one can assume that they will achieve high levels of subjective
well-being. However, this is not sufcient. People need to learn how to perceive themselves and
the environment around them. Therefore, getting to know one's strengths and developing them
will ensure that the individual is able to exploit them to her advantage and be in control of her
life. A nal point, that is no less important than the previous ones, is our ability to manage and
understand our emotions and those of others. For the development of psychological capital's
attributes, a static model is proposed that adopts the accumulation of psychological capital in
schools. The goal is to dene the best time allocation between hours devoted to the learning of
psychological skills versus hours devoted to the learning of technical skills. The possibility of
substitution between them is then analysed with respect to prices and the elasticity of substitu-
tion. This work could be supported by further empirical research that would combine the four
1
psychological attributes proposed and SWB into a single model to identify their effect on it.
Educational programmes could be proposed that would take into account the learning of these
and other attributes to ensure a more holistic education for children and ultimately enable them
to achieve high levels of well-being as young people and later as adults.
2
Chapter 1
Subjective Well-Being
1.1 Introduction
"SWB is a reection of the quality of life of an individual and of societies. How people feel
and think about their own lives is essential to understanding well-being in any society that
grants importance not just to the opinions of experts or leaders, but to all people in the society"
(
Diener, Oishi, & Lucas
,
 2003
)
. "A growing body of evidence suggests that high well-being
and life satisfaction signicantly improve life within the four areas of health and longevity,
work and income, social relations, and societal benets"
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
. In order to
understand how people gain a higher well-being, different denitions of SWB will be reviewed,
shedding light on the difference between the meaning of happiness and well-being, as well as
the subjectivity and objectivity of well-being. The next step will be to investigate the different
components of SWB and the relationship between them. The nal part of the chapter will be
dedicated to the discussion of different context theories related to SWB. A discussion about
measures of Subjective well-being will however not be introduced in this thesis, as the aim of
the research is to understand the nature of SWB, and then use it as a means. In other words,
SWB will not be the end of this research, but a source of information to identify attributes that
can help people improve their well-being.
1.2 Dening subjective well being
Many philosophers and social scientists have taken an interest in the denition of well-being
and happiness. A rst sense of happiness was dened by external criteria such as virtues. Hap-
piness is not seen as a subjective state, but as possessing something desirable. Aristotle dened
Eudaemonia
1
as having a virtuous life. According to him virtue is not a means that leads to joy,
but a standard that is used to judge people's lives. This means that Eudaemonia is not happi-
ness in itself, rather a desirable state judged according to a particular value framework. So the
criterion of happiness in this context is not the subjective judgement of the actor, but the value
framework of the observer
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
.
The second sense of happiness has been given by social scientists who have focused on the
question "what causes people to evaluate their lives in positive terms?". At this point, the def-
inition of SWB was labelled "life satisfaction" and relies on the norms of the respondent to
determine what the life is. Diener uses the denition of Shin and Johnson (1978) to reect
this aspect of subjective well-being which was developed by social scientists, "happiness is the
overall assessment of the quality of life of the person, according to her own criteria"
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
.
A related denition given by Chekola (1975), states that "happiness is the harmonious satisfac-
1
Sometimes anglicized as eudaemonia or eudemonia, is a Greek word commonly translated as happiness or
welfare; however, "human ourishing or prosperity"and "blessedness" have been proposed as more accurate trans-
lations.
4
tion of the person's desires and goals"
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. One can notice from these denitions that
happiness has been related to the person's subjectivity .
The third sense given to happiness and well-being attaches greater importance to emotions.
In his article, Diener uses the denition of (Bradbun 1969), which denes happiness as the
result of the preponderance of positive affects over negative affects. This means that the per-
son has either experienced more positive emotions in her life than negative ones, or that she is
predisposed to positive emotions whether or not she experiences them in the present
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
.
In the previous denitions, the terms happiness and well-being have been used without dis-
tinction. However, according to psychologists, happiness is dened as "a state of contented
pleasantness and is one of many specic emotions that people can feel in response to life events
and daily experiences"
(
Diener et al.
,
 2009
)
.ﬁIt is a popular term that can refer to pleasant moods
and emotions experienced at any given moment (positive affect), to general evaluation of life
as life satisfaction, or to subjective well-being"
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
. The term happiness
is not always used with precision. It can be used to express a broader meaning, something
close to what can be called well-being. Denitions of well-being however, involve an evalua-
tion, and differ in the object of the evaluation. For example, in a research related to quality of
life in the health eld, well-being can be dened as "being healthy". In the economic context,
well-being is dened as "being rich". Nevertheless, a broader and more holistic denition can
also be given to the term Well-being as "
the individual's global evaluation of her life across
a variety of different aspects of that life
"
 (
Diener et al.
,
 2009
)
. Thus, well-being can also
refer to being well in general rather than being well in a specic context of life, for example
being healthy, or being rich. It represents people's evaluations of their lives, both in terms of
cognitions (e.g.,ﬁMy life is satisfying") and feelings (e.g.,ﬁMy experiences are pleasant and re-
warding). It reects people's beliefs and feelings about whether they are leading a desirable and
rewarding life
 (
Diener
,
 2012
)
. These cognitive and emotional evaluations, concern events that
happen to them, their body and mind, and the circumstances in which they live"
 (
Diener
,
 2006
)
,
including judgements and feelings about life satisfaction, interest and engagement, affective re-
actions such as joy and sadness to life events, and satisfaction with work, relationships, health,
recreation, meaning and purpose, and other important domains
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
.
1.3 Subjectivity and objectivity in denitions of well-being
In dening SWB, it is interesting to distinguish between objectivity and subjectivity. This dis-
tinction concerns the perspective from which life is being evaluated. Objective denitions would
require an objective point of view, independent of the subjective values and norms of individu-
als. In other words, objective denitions would include characteristics that would be considered
5
as an ideal, regardless of the assessment of the individual who is experiencing those character-
istics. Subjective denitions of well-being on the other hand, are based on the interests, needs,
preferences and desires of the individual
 (
Diener et al.
,
 2009
)
. In some cases, the two denitions
may be found to align. For instance in various objective denitions, physical health is consid-
ered as an important component of well-being. At the same time, it would be difcult to say that
a person's life is going well if she is not in good health. Health is considered to be objectively
good, and potentially plays an important role in subjective denitions of well-being, as most
people prefer to be healthy
 (
Diener et al.
,
 2009
)
. The subjective denitions of well-being are
mainly aligned with people's interests. Life does not go well unless the individual who lives
it considers it good and evaluates it positively. Thus, a person could have a good health and
nancial situation however, she could judge that she is not satised with her life. Despite some
alignments between subjective and objective denitions of well-being, the distinction between
the two remains crucial.
1.4 The structure of subjective well-being
SWB includes a broad category of phenomena, including individuals' emotional responses, ar-
eas of satisfaction and overall life satisfaction. In his famous article "Subjective Well-Being"
(
Ed
,
 1984
)
 uses the research results of Andrews and Withey (1976) to distinguish between the
3 components of SWB: Life satisfaction LS, Positive Affect PA, and negative affect NA. Years
later, Diener and colleagues (1999) included a fourth component which is satisfaction in spe-
cic domains DS, such as satisfaction with health. In their denition of SWB, researchers refer
to cognitive components (life satisfaction and domain satisfaction), and affective components
(positive affect and negative affect). The cognitive components are based on people's evolv-
ing beliefs about their lives. The emotional components reect the amount of pleasant and
unpleasant feelings that people experience in their life
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
.
1.4.1 The structure of affective well-being
"Moods and emotions, which together are labelled affect, represent people's on-line evaluations
of the events that occur in their lives"
 (
Diener, Suh, Lucas, & Smith
,
 1999
)
. In his famous ar-
ticle on SWB
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
 Diener describes the various research studies that have addressed the
question of the correlation between positive and negative affect. Some researchers have come
to the conclusion that positive and negative affect are independent. Among those researchers
who defended this result, Bradburn who found that positive and negative items are relatively
independent, proposed that happiness consists of two separable components (positive affect and
negative affect). He inferred that although positive and negative affect scales were practically
uncorrelated, they each had independent and progressive correlations with overall well-being.
6
Bradburn's ndings support the idea that the absence of negative affect does not equate to the
presence of positive affect. According to Bradburn's results, measures that attempt to improve
overall well-being should reduce negative affect and account for the increase of positive affect.
Researches done by Diener and Emmons
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
 showed that negative and positive affect
are negatively correlated. Unlike Bradburn, they conducted affect studies over varying periods
of time from few moments to few weeks and measured the degree of negative and positive emo-
tions felt by respondents. The results of their researches indicate that the correlation between
the two natures of affect is negative at particular points in time. But that this correlation dimin-
ishes as the time interval becomes longer (weeks or more) in the person's life. So the average
levels of positive and negative affect that a person can experience are independent, even though
experiencing both affects at the same time is very unlikely. Average levels of affect refer to the
frequency and intensity of each emotion. Based on the results found, Diener and colleagues
proposed that only average levels of affect over long periods of time (weeks or more) are statis-
tically independent of each other.
Because negative and positive affect are negatively correlated in frequency (it is very unlikely
to experience negative feelings and positive feelings at the same time), their intensity should be
positively correlated so that average affect levels become independent. This nding has been
supported by series of other research studies done by Diener and colleagues. They found that
intensity of positive and negative affect has a positive correlation of R = 0.70. People expe-
rience positive and negative affects with relatively the same intensity. Since the intensity and
frequency of the appearance of affects are not correlated, when combined additively, their in-
uence makes the average levels of positive and negative affects independent over time
 (
Ed
,
1984
)
. Diener and colleagues concluded that although intensity is an important dimension of
the experience of affect, it has no inuence on general subjective well-being. What can, how-
ever, predict general well-being in terms of affective experience is the frequency of positive
states compared to negative states in a person's life over time
 (
Larsen & Eid
,
 2008
)
.
Although positive and negative affect are negatively correlated in their frequency of occur-
rence, the amount of affect one person tends to have does not affect the amount of the other
affect. This observation made it possible to conceptualize contributions independent of each
affect to the hedonic component of overall subjective well-being. This hedonic component has
been dened by researchers as the relationship between positive and negative affect over time
in a person's life
 (
Larsen & Eid
,
 2008
)
.
7
1.4.2 The structure of cognitive well-being
A third dimension of SWB is "life satisfaction" (LS). It refers to a process of judgement, in
which individuals evaluate the quality of their lives based on a set of criteria of their own. A
comparison of perceived life circumstances with a set of self-imposed norms is made and if
the conditions meet these standards, the person reports a high level of satisfaction in her life.
Therefore, life satisfaction is a conscious cognitive judgement of one's life in which the criteria
for judgement are up to the person. Although it could be agreed on the important components
of a good life, such as having good health and fullling social relationships. Individuals give
different weights to these components. They may also have unique criteria of what is a good life,
criteria that in some cases may be more important than the common reference criteria
 (
Pavot &
Diener
,
 2009
)
.
Bottom-up versus Top-down theories
Bottom-up theory states that people maintain a certain degree of well-being by summing up
small pleasures. According to this theory, if a person wants to judge whether she is happy in
life, a certain mental calculation is used to add up the momentary pleasures and sorrows. In
contrast, the top-down theory states that there is an overall propensity to experience things pos-
itively, and this propensity inuences the momentary interactions an individual has with the
world. In this approach, overall personality characteristics inuence the way individuals react
to events
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. After the integration of Domain satisfaction (DS) into the structure of
cognitive well-being, researchers have used bottom-up versus top-down theories to explain the
nature of the structural relationship between the two elements. Bottom-up theory states that
judgements of life satisfaction are based on satisfaction in a relatively limited number of life's
areas. This is equivalent to saying that the correlation between LS and DS is only a reection
of the causal inuence of DS on LS. For example, a person who has high satisfaction with her
marriage, would experience high life satisfaction because her marital status is an important as-
pect of her overall life satisfaction. On the other hand, top-down theory supports the opposite
direction of causality. A person who is satised with her life in general could evaluate the dif-
ferent areas of her life in a positive way. That does not mean that the general satisfaction is
based on satisfaction with particular domains
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
.
The simplest of the top-down models states that people who are satised with their life are
also satised with everything else. This means that there is a strong correlation between DSs.
However, empirical research has shown the opposite. The correlation between DSs is small
to moderate and many respondents reported high levels of satisfaction in some areas and low
levels of satisfaction in other areas. In a study conducted by (Schimmack, 2006) on 1241
undergraduates, he asked them questions about their life satisfaction in general and about 9 do-
mains (academic, recreation, romantic, family/parents, friendships, health, housing, trafc, and
8
weather). He found a mean correlation of R = .28 for all 9 domains of satisfaction. The simple
top-down model also states that the correlation between LS-DS should be the same for all areas
of satisfaction. Empirical studies have shown however, that there is a strong correlation between
LS-DS in some areas considered important to respondents
2
, and lower correlations between LS
and other domains (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
). It is nevertheless possible according to Ulrich Schim-
mack
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
 to conceptualize a more sophisticated top-down model, which will
take into account the results of the simple model, by adding two hypotheses:
1. The DSs are substantially inuenced by factors specic to the domain.
2. LS has a stronger impact on DS in more important areas (family) compared to less important
areas (Weather).
Schimmack obtained strong evidence by examining the pattern of correlations among several
domains. He predicted DS-DS correlations in the 9 domains mentioned previously in a study
on undergraduates. The results showed a correlation between the DS of the 9 domains with LS
and the correlation of the DS of one domain with the other 8 domains. From these correlations,
he created a variable that counts for the average correlation of the DS in one domain with the
other domains. According to the top-down model, there is a high correlation between the mean
variable of the correlation of the DS with the other domains and LS. Schimmack effectively
found a supporting result with a correlation of R = 0.80 ( p < 0.05). Both variables were also
correlated with the importance of the domain (according to its average ranking among the re-
spondents). This means that an important domain such as family has a high correlation with LS
and the other domains compared to a less important domain such as the weather. These correla-
tions would still imply that domain satisfaction has no causal effect on LS
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
.
In the experience of introspective evidence, researchers (Schimmack, (Diener and Oishi 2002))
used a more direct approach to determine the causes of LS. Researchers looked at what re-
spondents were thinking when they answered questions about LS. Consistent with bottom-up
theory, respondents reported thinking about important areas in their lives such as family more
than other areas such as the weather. Thinking about important life domains, moderated the
correlations between DS-LS. Moreover, the DS-LS correlations were low when respondents
did not think about the domains in question. This result is a contrary evidence for the effect of
the top-down theory, as the top-down effect does not require activation of domain knowledge
during LS judgments
 (
Eid & Larsen
,
 2008
)
.
Based on the various ndings on the bottom-up and top-down theory regarding the relation-
ship between DS and LS. It can be deduced that there is a correlation between LS and some
2
Schimmack investigated this question by examining the correlation between the ranking of satisfaction do-
mains and the correlation of the LS-DS. He found a strong correlation between the importance of the domain and
its correlation with LS.
9
DSs that are considered important to people. Although dening the causal links between the
two variables remains ambiguous, it is interesting to include both theories in analyses related
to cognitive well-being. Bottom-up and top-down theories have also been applied to subjective
well-being in general. Concerning the bottom-up theory, it was a question of understanding the
inuence of external events, as well as demographics on subjective well-being. Studies con-
ducted by Campbell, Converse and Rodgers (1976) showed that demographic factors such as
age, sex, income, race, education and marital status explained less than 20% of the variation
in SWB. Andrews and Withey (1976) found that these same variables accounted for 8% of the
variance of the SWB
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1999
)
. Given the modest effect of external objective vari-
ables, researchers turned to top-down theory to explain the variability of the SWB. They have
investigated the structures that are part of an individual's personality and that determine how
people perceive events and circumstances.
Answering the question of causality regarding the relationship between the elements of cog-
nitive well-being would not give us a clear explanation about how people achieve satisfaction
in a specic domain or in life in general. Since objective variables are responsible for only a
modest percentage of the variance in SWB, the aim would be to know what characteristics drive
people to be satised with their lives or with a particular domain.
1.5 Context theories of subjective well-being
In addition to bottom-up and top-down theories, there are other theoretical models that have
examined the concept of subjective well-being under different angles, ranging from biological
theories that have studied the genetic predispositions of happiness, to relative standards, which
have examined the inuence of the concept of comparison on individuals' well-being. In the
hope of better identifying the variables that can have a substantial inuence on the SWB, it is
interesting to review some of the different theories of the SWB.
1.5.1 Telic theories
Most people experience a feeling of well-being after achieving a goal or fullling a desire.
However, the relevant question that one can ask, is whether the achievement of goals will cre-
ate considerable differences in SWB between people, or whether it only reects a temporary
change (in this case short-term mood elevation). Some theorists such as (Chekola 1975) sup-
port the idea that happiness (well-being) depends on the continual accomplishment of the life
plan. In other words, the total set of the person's goals. So according to the "life plan" ap-
proach, SWB depends on the coherence of the goals in the person's life and their achievement
(
Ed
,
 1984
)
.
10
According to Telic theory
3
, people get to experience a certain level of subjective well-being
when they reach their goals and desires. However, these objectives should be harmonious with
each other throughout their life. They must be realistic, within their reach and correspond to
their skills. In other words, they should not be very ambitious in comparison to the person's
means and capacities, in order not to create a certain frustration due to their non-realization.
(
Brunstein
,
 1993
)
 conducted an empirical study on the relationship of goals to students' sub-
jective well-being during the rst semester (the attributes of subjective well-being as well as
the measures of the 3 dimensions of personal goals were measured 4 times over the course of
one semester). He examined the extent to which the 3 dimensions of personal goals - commit-
ment, attainability and progress in achieving the goal - were predictive of students' subjective
well-being over a one-semester period. Commitment to goals was found to moderate the ex-
tent to which changes in goal attainment explained changes in well-being. Progress in goal
achievement mediated the effect of (the Goal Commitment times Goal Attainability) on SWB
interaction. Concerning goal commitment and attainability of personal goals: a student indicat-
ing a high level of goal commitment in addition to favourable conditions to attain personal goals
would display a moderate increase in subjective well-being from Time 1 to Times 2, 3, and 4,
respectively. In contrast, a student who had a high level of goal commitment but unfavourable
conditions to attain personal goals would show a marked decline in subjective well-being at
each of the three testing periods. In comparison, subjective well-being of students who felt less
committed to personal goals would be relatively insensitive to differences in the attainability of
personal goals. Which means that students who both possessed a high level of goal commit-
ment and experienced favourable conditions to attain personal goals displayed positive changes
in well-being over time. In contrast, subjective well-being was impaired in students who in-
dicated high levels of goal commitment in conjunction with unfavourable conditions to attain
personal goals. From this study it can be concluded that setting goals and striving to achieve
them is not enough to improve subjective well-being. In addition, there must be a commitment
to achieve them and the ability to do so. Committing to objectives while lacking condence in
one's ability to achieve them will not allow one to get to the desired result (achieving the goal).
It is therefore important to commit to personal goals with the precondition of having a high
probability of being able to achieve them (favourable condition and adequate skills), in order to
nally hope for an improvement in subjective well-being.
1.5.2 Activity theories
Activity theory reects what Diener mentioned in his article
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
 about the fact that sub-
jective well-being could be the result of an evolutionary process towards the achievement of
a goal. Activity theories or Autotelic theories state that happiness and in our case subjective
3
Telic: tending toward an end or outcome
11
well-being, is only an auxiliary consequence (by-product) of human activity. Aristotle was one
of the rst defenders of this theory. According to him, human beings have certain abilities
(capacities), and happiness will arise if these capacities are exploited in an excellent way. Ac-
cording to Diener, the most explicit formulation concerning activity and SWB, was proposed
by (Csikszentmihalyi, 1975) in his Flow theory
4
. "Activities are seen as pleasurable when the
challenge is matched to the person's skill level. If an activity is too easy, boredom will develop;
if it is too difcult anxiety will result. When a person is involved in an activity that demands
intense concentration and in which the person's skills and the challenge of the task are roughly
equal, a pleasurable ow experience will result
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. Contrary to Telic theory, happiness
according to activity theory is experienced when people are involved in interesting activities
and not through the achievement of goals.
1.5.3 Cognitive theories
Several theories based on memory, conditioning or cognitive principles, which can be grouped
under the rubric of associationistic models, state that some people are predisposed to have high
levels of well-being. One of the explanations given for the weak correlation between objective
circumstances and life events and people's well-being is that people do not react passively
to these events. On the contrary, these life events are constructed and framed, evaluated and
interpreted, contemplated and remembered. The reason why these objective variables such as
wealth and health have small impacts on people's well-being is that different psychological
treatments moderate the impact of events, life circumstances and demographic factors on well-
being
 (
Lyubomirsky
,
 2001
)
. Cognitive theories focus on the power of cognitive processes to
determine the individuals' well-being. The AIM (attention, interpretation, and memory) model
of well-being is one such cognitive theories. It states that people with high SWB tend to direct
their attention to positive stimuli, interpret events in a positive way, and remember past events
with positive memory bias. People who testify high level of SWB, naturally interpret neutral
and ambiguous events in a positive way. In addition, happy people are not different in terms of
the number of positive and negative events they experience. However, they tend to remember
events as if they were better than they actually were, which leads to a positive and protective
memory bias
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
.
1.5.4 Temperament and personality
Temperament has a very important impact on the individuals' level of well-being. Studies on
heritability on twins who have been raised in different environments have shown that both pos-
itive and negative affect have been strongly linked to the genetic basis
 (
Diener, Suh, & Oishi
,
4
Flow is an optimal psychological state that people experience when engaged in an activity that is both appro-
priately challenging to one's skill level, often resulting in immersion and concentrated focus on a task. This can
result in deep learning and high levels of personal and work satisfaction.
12
1997
)
. In addition to the heritability factor, researchers have been interested in studying the
inuence of the big 5 personality traits on SWB. Among the most studied personality traits we
nd extroversion and neuroticism, which have been shown to be most related traits to SWB lev-
els (Diener & Lucas, 1999; Rusting & Larsen, 1997). Extroversion has been shown to predict
positive affects (Lucas & Fujita, 2000), while neurocticism has been shown to predict negative
affects (Fujita, 199 1)
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
. Agreeableness and conscientiousness traits are
also moderately correlated with SWB through environmental rewards. In most environments,
people who are agreeable and conscientious can receive more positive feedback from their sur-
roundings, which will allow them to experience higher levels of SWB
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1997
)
.
Other psychological characteristics seem to have their share of inuence on the SWB. Self-
esteem is one of the strongest predictors of SWB. Campbell et al. 1976, found that self-esteem
was highly correlated with life satisfaction
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. This correlation is found to be of high
magnitude in individualistic societies (Diner and Diener 1995). In collectivist cultures self es-
teem and life satisfaction are typically correlated but not as much as in individualist societies
(
Diener et al.
,
 1997
)
. Another personality characteristic that has been shown to have a relation-
ship with well-being is internality. Internality is the tendency to attribute outcomes to oneself
rather than to external circumstances. This variable often referred to as locus of control has been
found to be related to subjective well-being in a number of populations. Internality can also be
interpreted as the person's perception of having choice or control over her life. Other research
has also shown that people's perceptions of their efcacy, personal resources and skills are also
related to SWB
 (
Ed
,
 1984
)
. Another trait that could be directly related to SWB is optimism. It
has been demonstrated in the USA that having unrealistic optimism and an exaggerated percep-
tion of control, function as a coping mechanism in order to restore or maintain psychological
and physical health
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1997
)
.
1.5.5 Relative standards
Theories of relative standards, state that well-being results from the comparison between certain
standards, such as (the individual's past, other people's lives, goals, ideals, etc.) and current
conditions. According to the social comparison theories, people refer to other people's lives
as standards in their comparison. The person will feel better if she sees herself better than the
person with whom she has compared herself and vice versa. Other theories, such as adaptation
theories, state that the person's past is the standard of comparison. For example, if a person
feels that her current situation exceeds the standards of the past, that person will experience a
better level of well-being. However, adaptation theory also states that people will experience
a high level of well-being for a limited period of time. Afterwards, once they have adopted
new standards in relation to their new situation, the event that once provided them with a better
well-being will no longer have this effect
 (
Diener & Ryan
,
 2009
)
.
13
1.6 Conclusion
In this chapter various theoretical concepts related to SWB were reviewed. In the rst part,
the focus was on the SWB's denition and structure. Affective Well-Being is reected in a
sum of emotional reactions which are often responses to immediate and short-term factors.
In some cases, a person may feel sad or happy, without attaching a particular object to that
feeling (this state can be named Mood) and in other cases, people ignore their emotions or
are simply in denial. However, this does not prevent them from recognising the undesirable
factors in their lives. Cognitive Well-Being however, is a person's conscious evaluation of her
life's circumstances which reects her conscious values and goals. Since emotional reactions
reect unconscious motives and inuences of the body's condition
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1999
)
 and
since the notion of satisfaction reects more of a long-term perspective, the next steps will
analyse characteristics, attributes or processes that might lead people to be satised with their
lives in a long-term perspective. In other words, the focus will be on the cognitive part of SWB,
without studying how or why do people experience positive or negative affect. The last part
of the chapter was dedicated to understanding how the different theorists tried to answer the
question "why some people are happier than others". It has been found that there are a number
of variables which in a complementary or separate way inuence the levels of subjective well-
being. Among these variables, there are components that are inborn in people, and whose goal
of inuencing them would be unrealisable. Variables such as personality traits which may also
be unchangeable, are inuenced by the culture and the environment in which people live. In
fact, Diener and colleagues have come to the conclusion that people experience high levels of
well-being when they live in environments that are congruent with their personality traits
 (
Ed
,
1984
)
. The objective for the next chapters would be rst to discuss what was discovered about
SWB in an economical eld and then to identify the variables which are dened as to be state-
like and which could have an inuence on SWB in general. To sum up, the next step will be to
focus on the state-like attributes that can be learned or adopted whatever the personality of the
individual is, and which could inuence peoples' life satisfaction in a long run.
14
Chapter 2
Subjective Well-Being in Economics
2.1 Introduction
Subjective well-being in economics is translated into utility. Since utility has been the focus
of economists' interest, it has been identied by the quantity of goods and services consumed
by the individual. The choice of these goods and services revealed the preferences of individ-
uals. In other words, the utility or well-being of agents is expressed by the satisfaction of their
preferences. Economists start from the assumption that each individual is rational, has all the
necessary information and always aspires to maximize her utility. However, several studies in
behavioral economics and psychology show that people often make inconsistent decisions, do
not learn from their experiences, base their own satisfaction on how their situation is compared
to others' satisfaction and thus deviate from the standard model of the rational economic agent.
If people exhibit limited rationality when it comes to maximizing utility, then their choices do
not necessarily reect their "true" preferences, and relying exclusively on choices to reduce
what people want, loses some of its appeal
 (
Kahneman & Krueger
,
 2006
)
.
Economists long after psychologists have turned to other alternatives to measure individuals'
utility. Direct reports of subjective well-being are beginning to gain interest and may play a key
role in reecting consumer's preferences and welfare. Many economists studied SWB's deter-
minants, such as income/ relative income, unemployment and health. These kind of studies are
based on the following general form:
S W B
r epor t
=
r
(
h
)
The reported SWB, which often represents the answer to a single question about life satis-
faction or happiness, is a function (r) of the true SWB(h). The true SWB is determined by a set
of social, economic, and environmental factors (Xs). this relationship is modelled empirically
as an additive function :
S W B
it
=

1
x
1
it
+

2
x
2
it
+
:::
+

it
Individuals' differences in the reporting of their responses is captured in the error term
 (
Dolan,
Peasgood, & White
,
 2008
)
. However, it should be pointed out that responses on the SWB are
treated differently in terms of both the content of the response and the nature of the SWB vari-
able. For example, some researchers treat SWB as cardinal, while others treat it as a latent
variable and analyze the data with logit or probit models. Nevertheless, SWB is estimated by
interpreting the different coefcients resulting from the empirical study. These interpretations
are mainly based on the fact that the causal link passes from the explanatory variables to the
dependent variable, and the unobserved variables are not correlated with the explanatory vari-
ables
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
. Another difculty with the SWB study is that the results found so
far, answer mainly the research question. In addition, different investigators measure different
16
concepts (e.g. happiness, distress, life satisfaction, etc.). It is therefore rare that a wide range of
concepts are evaluated in a single study
 (
Diener & Seligman
,
 2004
)
. Furthermore, and despite
the fact that in recent years researchers have been using different, more sophisticated methods
such as panel data on large samples, these same methods also have certain limitations for ex-
ample, controlling for time-invariant individual effects. Although the causal link will be further
strengthened, the effect of variables that cannot be observed cannot be measured. This topic
will be discussed in more detail at the end of the chapter.
2.2 The effect of income on SWB
Income was one of the rst factors studied by researchers to identify its inuence on the degree
of people's well-being. One of the main triggers for research of the income effect on happiness
was the article written by Easterlin (1974) which exposed the paradox of substantial growth in
real incomes in Western countries
1
over many years (50 years), but without any corresponding
increase in reported levels of happiness. Whereas richer people report higher levels of happi-
ness than the poorer
 (
Clark, Frijters, & Shields
,
 2008
)
. The paradox states that at a point in time
happiness varies directly with income both among and within nations, but over time happiness
does not trend upward as income continues to grow. It is the contradiction between the point-
of-time and time series ndings that is the root of the paradox. see
 (gure
 2.1
)
 and
 (gure
 2.2
)
.
As reported by
 (
Frey & Stutzer
,
 2002
)
 subjective well-being seems to increase with income.
Since the relationship of the function between the two variables is concave, income provides
happiness at low levels of development, but once a certain threshold is reached (around 10,000
$), average income in a country has little effect on average well-being.
In transition countries however, a stronger inuence of income on welfare can be found,
taking the example of post-reunication East Germany see
 (gure
 2.3
)
. East Germany observed
a substantial increase in income between 1991 and 2002 and reported a considerable increase
in life satisfaction
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
.
Sophisticated researches using multiple regressions and controlling for several demographic
variables have been able to prove that income does indeed play a role in increasing happiness,
or well-being. A study conducted by
 (
Blanchower & Oswald
,
 2004
)
 has shown that higher
income is associated with higher happiness. However, more income will not lead to higher
happiness in innity. Indeed there is a non-linear relationship between the two variables. There
is diminishing marginal utility with absolute income
 (
Frey & Stutzer
,
 2002
)
. The same propor-
tional increase in income yields a lower increase in happiness at higher income levels. Other
studies that have used panel data to control for the effect of unobserved variables have concluded
1
this trend has also been observed in other countries such as Japan and European countries.
17
Figure 2.1: Average happiness (left scale) and GDP per capita, dollars, (right scale) in the US
in 1972- 2016
Source:
(
Sachs
,
 2018
)
that changes in income are correlated with changes in happiness. Using exogenous variations
in income has allowed to demonstrate the causal link between income and happiness. Other re-
searches using large samples and cross time cross country models that control for country xed
effects, were able to prove that happiness co-moves with macroeconomic variables including
GDP and GNP
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
.
One of the most widely adopted explanations about the stagnation in levels of happiness despite
the improvement in income over the years, is the fact that income has an effect on happiness
when individuals compare themselves to others. People may have increases in their income,
but do not feel a better level of well-being when they compare themselves to others who have a
higher income than their own. This comparison can even be extended to an international level.
In a study conducted by
 (
Blanchower & Oswald
,
 2004
)
, they have indeed found that relative
income matters per se as opposed to absolute income. In
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
 Clark and his
colleagues conceptualized a model to explain the Easterlin Paradox. They used the concept of
income comparison between self and others (a reference group), which they called social com-
parison, and between the person's current and past situation, which they called adaptation or
habituation.
Regarding social comparison, the main prediction of their model is that the gradient between
income and happiness will be more pronounced within a country at a given point in time than
over time, see
 (gure
 2.4
)
. This is due to the fact that people with high incomes within a country
enjoy a privileged status. It is essential to note however, that this status advantage has no over-
18
Figure 2.2: Self-reported life satisfaction vs GDP per capita, 2017
Source:
World happiness report (2019), World Bank
all impact on happiness at the national level (in their model, the more status a person gains, the
more status others will lose. Thus, status is a zero-sum game). Over time within a country, the
only effect of income on overall happiness will be via the consumption component of the utility
function. At a point in time, those with higher incomes enjoy higher consumption and higher
status and are thus happier. However, over time as everyone becomes richer, as the amount of
status is xed, the only benet to the country is from higher consumption, the value of which
drops towards zero.
In the empirical eld, much research has been conducted to test the effect of social compar-
ison on happiness with respect to income. The challenging point was to identify the reference
point, for which several approaches have been used. There are researchers who have predicted
the income of "people like me" and then used it in the regression of the SWB. Others, on the
other hand, have computed cell averages (for example, average wage by region, sex and edu-
cation)
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
.
 (
Knight, Lina, & Gunatilaka
,
 2009
)
 the authors of the study titled
"Investigation on the subjective well-being and its determinants in rural China", introduced
different forms of income comparison, in time and space. Unlike other studies, they asked re-
spondents to compare their household income with the household income of other families in
the village. The effect on happiness was in all cases not only satisitically signicant but also
powerful and monotonic. Having a much above-average income increased happiness by 0.22,
and having an above-average income increased happiness by 0.11. Having an income below
the average diminished the score by 0.27 and much below average by 0.84. In particular, it
is the poor of the village who suffers as a result of making intra-village comparisons. Given
that household income per capita was controlled, and that the villages differed greatly in their
19
Figure 2.3: Life satisfaction and income in East Germany, 1991-2001
Source:
(
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
average income, these results imply an effect of relative income rather than absolute income on
the SWB.
In terms of adaptation, people get used to their circumstances. Thus, income will only have
a transitory effect. People tend to feel a reduction in the emotional intensity of favourable or
unfavourable circumstances. Once a certain time has passed they regain their basic hedonic
level after temporary ups and downs of happiness. In the case of adaptation
2
, the reference
point for individuals is their past income. There is a large body of literature in psychology that
addresses the issue of adaptation in different areas of life, however little research has focused
on income adaptation. Perhaps the most famous article written on this topic was by Brickman
et al.(1978), who used small sample of lottery winners ( n = 22), and showed that this group
with their positive income shock did not have signicantly higher life satisfaction than the con-
trol group
 (
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
. The explanation proposed for this phenomenon is that winning
money opens up new pleasures but also makes existing pleasures less enjoyable. Form the ha-
bituation perspective, winners get used to a new standard of living.
 (
Di Tella, Haisken-De New,
& MacCulloch
,
 2010
)
 used individual-level panel data on happiness from households living in
Germany between 1984 and 2000. Their objective was to identify whether income and status
have long-lasting historical impacts on happiness or whether these dissipate over time. They
ran series of regression specications that include happiness as the dependent variable, and in-
come and status as the two main explanatory variables. With respect to income adaptation, they
measured it by cumulating the effects of the previous 4 years' income on current happiness.
2
People may also have aspirations with which they compare their current income. In this case the reference
point will be their aspired income.
20
Figure 2.4: The relationship between income and happiness at the individual and the aggregate
level
Source:
(
Clark et al.
,
 2008
)
They found that the effect of current income on current happiness is 0.23. The effect of income
from other years is -0.04, -0.07, -0.06 and 0.02 from the rst year to the 4th year (the last year)
respectively. The magnitude of the adaptation of -0.15 was calculated by summing the effects
of old incomes. As a result of the initial income impact, 65.2% is lost over the next four years,
leaving a long-term effect of only 0.08.
Another important aspect which could affect SWB is the individuals' aspirations. For a given
income level, having high aspirations and expectations could have a negative effect on SWB.
Aspirations themselves seem to be partly motivated by past income, which implies an adapta-
tion to higher income levels. The importance of aspirations reinforces the conclusions that the
perception of the nancial situation has a greater predictive power than the real income. These
results imply that additional income for those who are not at low income levels is unlikely to
increase SWB in the long run if the additional income is used to raise expectations
 (
Dolan et
al.
,
 2008
)
.
Finally, it can be said that people either adapt to their circumstances and hence end up no
more satised than they were before, or they raise their nancial aspirations which will make
them feel less satised with their increase in income
 (
Lamu & Olsen
,
 2016
)
.
21
2.3 The effect of unemployment on SWB
Unemployment has drawn economists' attention as much as (if not more than) income in their
search for the SWB's determinants. Whatever method of measurement is used in research, there
is little doubt that unemployment causes deterioration in individual's well-being. Research that
treat life satisfaction as a continuous variable tend to nd that the unemployed have scores 5 to
15% lower than those who are employed
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
. In his article
 (
Lelkes
,
 2006
)
 used
European data and after controlling for several variables such as income, labor market, housing,
and health, he found that unemployment reduces the probability of high life satisfaction (8/10 )
by 19%, and overall happiness by 15%. Having a job seems to be an essential accomplishment
for people. In other words, there is no situation where an unemployed person has better levels of
subjective well-being than an employed person
 (
Van der Meer
,
 2014
)
. This nding is validated
across countries, time period and data sources. Causality was also validated using longitudinal
panel data. Unobservable individual heterogeneity have been shown to have no effect on the
inuence of unemployment on individual well-being. More importantly, unemployment causes
lower personal well-being not only through the fall of income, but also through the loss of psy-
chological benets associated with work. In other words, having a job is a source of prestige
and social recognition, providing self-respect and self-worth, apart from having a certain struc-
ture of the day, keeping a sense of purpose, and creating opportunities for social interaction
(
Shields & Price
,
 2005
)
. Men are found to be more affected than women in the case of unem-
ployment. Married men who are responsible for supporting their families report greater mental
distress from becoming unemployed compared to women
 (
Van der Meer
,
 2014
)
. Using a xed
effects model, Wildma and Jones (2002) found that the negative coefcient of unemployment
falls by 1.979 points to 0.989 for men, once satisfaction with nancial position and expectations
of future nancial position were controlled
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
. Other differences in the impact
of unemployment can be cited apart from gender differences. For example, the middle aged are
found to suffer more than the young or the old. Those with high levels of education suffer more
than others in Britain. The same is true for those with right wing political leanings in the US
(
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
.
In his article
 (
Clark
,
 2003
)
 found that unemployment and employment have the same effect
on well-being in regions with an unemployment rate of 24%. In contrast, the effect of unem-
ployment is 2.5 times higher in the data's lowest unemployment region (4%) than in the highest
unemployment region (16%). This means that people compare themselves to others in their
professional situation, taking unemployment as a reference or a social norm. If the person is
in a region with a high unemployment rate, her individual well-being will not be affected as
much as someone who is unemployed where most people are employed. This reinforces the
idea that unemployment does not only affect the nancial side of people's lives, but their social
status also. Individuals tend to evaluate their own situation relative to other persons. For most
22
persons, unemployment lowers their happiness less if they are not alone in their fate. When
unemployment is seen to hit many persons one knows or hears about, both the psychic and the
social effects are mitigated. Self-esteem is better preserved because it seems that being out of
a job is less one's own fault and more due to general developments in the economy.
 (
Frey &
Stutzer
,
 2002
)
.
 (
Clark
,
 2003
)
 also found that people with unemployed partners experience less
well-being, whereas people who are unemployed benet from having a partner who is work-
ing. The same result is observed if other family members are unemployed. The well-being
of the working person is negatively affected by the presence of unemployed family members.
However, the welfare of the unemployed person is positively affected if another family member
becomes unemployed. This does not exclude or negate the negative effect of unemployment on
the person experiencing it (one's own unemployment still reduces one's well-being, even if all
other adults in the household are unemployed).
At the macroeconomic level, people can be unhappy with unemployment even if they are not
affected. They may be sad for the fate of people who are unemployed, they may also be wor-
ried about the possibility of becoming unemployed themselves in the future, they may also feel
repercussions on the economy and society as a whole, they may dislike the increase in unem-
ployment contributions and taxes that may occur in the future, they may fear that crime and
social tensions will increase. In a study of 12 European countries in the period 1975-1991 (Di
Tella, MacCulloch, and Oswald 2001), found that a percentage point increase in the general
unemployment from 9% to 10% reduces stated life satisfaction by 0.028 units on the four scale-
point scale applied. The small rise in the unemployment is equivalent to shifting more than 2%
of the population downward from one life satisfaction category to another, keeping all other
inuences constant
 (
Frey & Stutzer
,
 2002
)
.
2.4 The effect of social relationships on SWB
There is growing evidence that social relationships are crucial to people's health and well-being.
Social capital at the individual level can be dened as "the social skills and networks that enable
an individual to access and/or mobilise the resources embodied in the social structure through
targeted actions"
 (
Lamu & Olsen
,
 2016
)
. Social relationships have the power to inuence iden-
tity and therefore are essential for the maintenance of mental health. Baumeister and Leary
(1995) argued that the need to belong and to have close social relationships is a fundamental
human motivation. The quality of social relationships has direct implications for individuals'
health and well-being
 (
Gleibs, Morton, Rabinovich, Haslam, & Helliwell
,
 2013
)
. In their article
(
Lamu & Olsen
,
 2016
)
 conducted a research based on a cross-sectional data set of 7933 peo-
ple from 6 developed countries to explain the relationship between income, health and social
23
relationships with SWB using the multiple-item satisfaction with life scale measure
3
proposed
by Diener et al.(1985). Social relations were measured by a composite score based on four
questions from the assessment of quality of life instrument. Two questions consider the extent
of enjoyment and satisfaction with one's close relationships, and two questions evaluate one's
feelings with respect to isolation and exclusion. Among the main independent variables, social
relationships show the strongest effect on SWB. They explain alone almost half of the variation
in SWB. The researchers also studied the effect of the three independent variables on different
levels of well-being and found that the coefcients change according to each level. However,
the coefcient of social relationships is more stable across the SWB distribution, with a slightly
stronger effect at lower level. The authors explain the effect of social relationships on SWB by
the fact that social interactions offer the opportunity for self-realization and fullment and that
takes place through shared identities such as families and communities, which will play a role in
strengthening subjective well-being. The researchers also found that living with a partner would
increase SWB by at least 4% more than living alone. Furthermore, there is evidence that the
level of SWB associated with being an unmarried cohabitant depends on the degree of stabil-
ity of the relationship. As opposed to unstable partnerships, stable partnerships are associated
with similar levels of SWB as married partnerships. Therefore, the data suggest that objective
circumstances (in this case marriage) do not always have direct effects on well-being and that it
is important to know how these experiences are perceived
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
.
2.5 The effect of Health on SWB
Studies have consistently found a strong relationship between health and happiness (reported
well-being). Indeed, the relationship between health and happiness is statistically more robust
than between happiness and income. Good health is linked to high levels of well-being, and
health shocks such as serious illnesses or disabilities have negative and often lasting effects on
people's well-being. At the same time many studies demonstrated that happy people have better
health, so the causal link seems to work both ways
 (
Graham
,
 2008
)
. However the effect size of
health is substantial, suggesting that even taking into account the effect of well-being on health,
health is still impacting on SWB
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
. This reverse causality can be explained by
the effect of personality traits and other unobservable variables that are related to better health
and higher happiness
 (
Graham
,
 2008
)
. The positive relationship between health and happiness
tends to be stronger for psychological health than for physical health. Although some serious
illnesses and disabilities have a strong negative impact on happiness, people who are subject
to these illnesses often adapt to their situations and change their expectations for health status
downward over time and return at least partly to their initial level of happiness. This is due to
the fact that they change their reference group to groups that have the same illness or disability
3
SWLS is designed to measure global cognitive judgements of satisfaction with one's life.
24
as them
 (
Graham
,
 2008
)
.
The same Easterlin paradox observed between well-being and income has also been observed
between health (which is strongly correlated with happiness) and income. Angus Deaton found
that Kenyans (82%) are more satised with their health than Americans (81%). The United
States is ranked 81 out of 115 countries in the public condence in the health system ranking
below India, Malawi and Sierra Leone. Once a certain level of health and longevity standards
are assured, there is no longer a cross-country relationship between health and happiness. How-
ever, within countries healthy people are happier than others
 (
Graham
,
 2008
)
.
In a study conducted by
 (
Graham, Higuera, & Lora
,
 2011
)
 they used a data set of 18 Latin Amer-
ican countries to study the relationship between health conditions (the EQ5D health measure
which is based on self-reports and captures 5 dimensions of physical and mental health namely:
mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression) and (health and
life satisfaction). In other words, their research question was how individuals' health status as
measured by the EQ5D relates to more subjective assessments of life and health satisfaction.
They found a strong correlation between the EQ5D score and subjective health status and life
satisfaction. The negative effects of extreme self-care and mobility conditions on both depen-
dent variables disappear once personal optimism is controlled
4
. People tend to adapt less to
the unpredictability of certain health conditions than they are to the unpleasant certainty of oth-
ers. The well-being of paraplegics for example, generally adapt to pre-accident levels, whereas
many epileptics face a lifetime of uncertainty about the timing of seizures. These negative ef-
fects on quality of life and adaptation to uncertainty become more difcult as time goes on. The
authors then interacted the variables (age, gender and income) with the 5 variables of the EQ5D
measure, and found that age increases anxiety, income reduces the effects of extreme pain on
life satisfaction, but increases difculties in self-care. Finally, gender reduces mobility and anx-
iety problems: men seem to experience more negative effects of mobility problems than women,
while women suffer more from anxiety. The authors also examined the effect of the reference
group's health on life satisfaction. They found that unlike income, comparative health effects
could have positive effects on life satisfaction because people tend to improve their health status
when they see that their peers are healthy beside the fact that they enjoy seeing the others being
healthy.
4
In the absence of panel data, which allows for the inclusion of person xed effects, they measure personal
optimism as the tendency of the individual to respond afrmatively to a number of satisfaction questions in the
Gallup survey.
25
2.6 Other Factors
In addition to the determinants outlined above, researchers have looked at many other factors
that may inuence subjective well-being. In the context of social relationships, trust is found
to have an effect on people's subjective well-being.
 (
Helliwell
,
 2006
)
 found that trust in most
other people is associated with higher levels of life satisfaction. Other studies have shown that
political orientations have different impacts on social and economic circumstances through in-
teraction effects. For example, being unemployed has a more negative effect on the well-being
of people who consider themselves right wingers in the United States. On the other hand, in-
equality was worse in terms of life satisfaction for people who consider themselves left wingers
in Europe
 (
Dolan et al.
,
 2008
)
, meaning that The ndings on political orientations also suggest
that the impact of external circumstances is dependent on individuals' perceptions and attitudes
towards those circumstances. Religion also plays a role in the levels of individuals' well-being,
based on the idea that beliefs affect SWB,
 (
Helliwell
,
 2006
)
 found that belief in God was as-
sociated with high levels of life satisfaction. However, there is a tendency to nd differences
in SWB among population groups of the same religion, suggesting that people use religion or
spirituality in different ways to cope with life's difculties. In their article
 (
Johnson & Krueger
,
2006
)
 used a nation wide sample of 719 twin peers from the National survey of mid-life de-
velopment in the United states, to demonstrate that the perception of nancial status and the
perception of control over life completely mediated the association between nancial resources
and life satisfaction. Their analysis showed that objective indicators of environmental circum-
stances such as income and assets have very important psychological aspects. In other words,
a person's annual salary of say $50,000 can have very different effects on life satisfaction than
on another person's life satisfaction with the same salary. There are people who are materi-
alistic, so their income will have an important impact on their life satisfaction because it will
be the means that will allow them to satisfy their needs and desires. The greater the material
desires are, the more material resources will be required for their attainment. If the gap between
desires and nancial situation is large, people who tend to be materialistic will perceive their
nancial situation as poor even if they earn a good living, which could have an negative impact
on their life satisfaction.
 (
Hayo & Seifert
,
 2003
)
 conducted an ordered logit model study of
Eastern European countries from 1991 to 1995 in order to identify the determinants of subjec-
tive economic well-being. Based on the hypothesis that individuals living in the countries in
transition will compare their current conditions with the former socialist system, people will
compare their subjective economic well-being over time and classify themselves as winners or
losers depending on the transformation of the process. They have found that people take their
expectations of the future into account when judging their actual economic SWB. The more op-
timistic the respondents were about the future, the higher was their current subjective economic
well-being. In behavioral terms, this means that a seemingly unsatisfactory economic situation
can become bearable if the respondent believes that the situation will improve in the future.
26
2.7 Discussion
According to the different researches done on subjective well-being in the elds of psychology
and economics, it can be noticed that the results (the coefcients, their magnitude and signi-
cance) change according to the research method and the hypotheses adopted for each research
question, which amounts to integrating different control variables, giving sometimes heteroge-
neous results. In their review of research done on SWB or Happiness to study the robustness of
the ndings,
 (
Ferrer-i Carbonell & Frijters
,
 2004
)
 found that psychologists interpret happiness
responses as cardinal, in other words the difference between a level of happiness between 4
and 5 is the same as between 8 and 9 for all individuals. In economics, cardinality is viewed
with suspicion. It is assumed that the answers on happiness can be interpreted only ordinally.
Thus, the relative difference between answers cannot be known. The advantage of the cardi-
nality hypothesis is that changes in happiness can be associated with changes in the variable(s)
of interest. This means that any unobservable time-invariant effect disappears in the linear
specication, which is why there are many articles in psychology that use econometric mod-
els with individual xed effects. Economists however, consider happiness or SWB as a latent
variable, and use latent variable models. In addition to the nature of the dependent variable
(cardinal/ordinal) the models chosen are based on the nature of the statistical assumptions made
by the researchers. These assumptions are based on the existence and effects of unobserved
factors in the available data set. Two statistical hypotheses can be cited that show the reason for
using different statistical models:
S 1 : There are time-varying unobserved factors that are related to the observable variables
in an unknown way, this hypothesis is often raised in economic theory. People often make
choices that are dependent on certain constraints and expectations. Anything that inuences life
satisfaction and can inuence expectations and constraints will also inuence decision making.
Under S1 causal inferences cannot be made
 (
Ferrer-i Carbonell & Frijters
,
 2004
)
.
S2: There are time-invariant unobserved factors that are related to the initial level of observable
factors. The unobserved factors can inuence the level of other variables but not the change in
these variables. A famous example of this kind of xed unobserved factors in economic analy-
sis are personality traits
 (
Ferrer-i Carbonell & Frijters
,
 2004
)
.
(
Ferrer-i Carbonell & Frijters
,
 2004
)
 have used the xed effect ordered logit model, combining
the ordinality characteristic of economic models with the xed effects characteristics often used
by psychologists. They found that assuming the cardinality or ordinality of responses on over-
all satisfaction is relatively unimportant to the results. What matters with respect to estimates
is how to take into account time-invariant (variant) unobserved factors. Comparing the results
of e.g. income between the xed effect ordered logit model and the ordered logit model often
27
used by economists, it is found that the effect of income on general satisfaction falls by 2/3
(when allowing for xed unobserved factors). The variable "having children" had a non signif-
icant positive effect on general satisfaction, contrary to its negative effect in the model without
xed effects. Therefore, it can be said that other variables that have been the subject of interest
by other researchers may have different effects once the individual xed effects are taken into
account.
2.8 Conclusion
According to the studies brought to our knowledge, different results arise depending on the
variable of interest as well as the method or model used for the data analysis. The unobservable
time-invariant variables seem to affect the coefcients and their magnitude if they are not taken
into account. Other aspects also seem to mediate the relationship between objective factors and
SWB. People do not use their absolute income when they answer questions about their SWB,
they compare their income to others (relative income), which creates the feeling of satisfaction
or dissatisfaction. This comparison can be done in relation to old situations as well, or in relation
to the person's aspirations. Adaptation and aspiration also mediate the relationship between
income and subjective well-being. Once people adapt to their new income, they return to their
old SWB level. Aspiration on the other hand, pushes people to have new desires that are above
their current income, which in some cases will prevent them form not keeping the satisfaction
of their situation despite the increase in income. Certain psychological characteristics also play
a substantial role in determining SWB. People perceive circumstances differently, one can nd
individuals with average or precarious nancial situations but who feel more satised with their
lives and people who have a good nancial situation but do not feel satised. Optimism and
hope about future events also have an inuence on individuals' SWB. Having the perception of
control over one's life can help people limit the impact of external events over their life. These
variables, whether they are related to personality traits (time -invariant unobservable variables)
or psychological characteristics (time - variant un/observable variables) which effects cannot be
accurately identied yet, seem to inuence people's SWB levels, and above all might mediate
the impact of objective circumstances on life satisfaction. In the next chapter four psychological
variables, will be presented that might affect considerably SWB.
28
Chapter 3
Psychological Capital
3.1 Introduction
To be happy does not necessarily mean that the person has a purpose in life. One can nd people
who are happy, but who do not have goals in life (or do not function effectively) and do not seek
fullment
1
. Also one can nd people who are successful in their lives in many areas, but who do
not necessarily feel joy in their lives. In addition to feeling good, being satised with one's own
life in a holistic way includes the aspect of positive functioning. Ryff (1995) denes well-being
as "the striving for perfection that represents the realization of one's true potential"
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
.
A life that is meant to be lived well, should reect: autonomy, personal growth, self-acceptance,
purpose in life, environmental mastery and positive relations with others
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
. In other
words, it can be said that well-being has two interconnected dimensions, which inuence each
other: the hedonic aspect which concerns pleasure and happiness and focuses on the balance
between positive and negative affects, and the eudaimonic aspect which is characterized by the
search for the actualization of human potential and the realization of one's own nature. The
focus here is more on what the person is doing or thinking than on her feelings. In practice one
can feel joy while pursuing challenging activities, and the pursuit of goals that are meaningful to
oneself can offer a source of emotional satisfaction
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
. In this chapter, Psychological
capital which contains four attributes namely: Personal strivings, self-efcacy, optimism, and
emotional intelligence, will be presented as a potential predictor of 40% of people's SWB.
3.2 Predictors of well-being
Researchers have studied a multitude of variables and processes that could predict and pro-
mote well-being. Three major categories emerge from this research: a) demographic variables,
b) personality, emotions, and biological perspectives, and c) cognitive, behavioral, and social-
relational variables. Several studies have shown that demographic variables such as income
explain only a small portion of the variance in well-being, ranging from 10 to 15%
 (
Sheldon &
Lyubomirsky
,
 2007
)
. Variables of a biological nature, specically genes, have been shown to
explain between 40 and 70% of the variations in well-being, with the most common gure being
around 50%. In other words, there are people who are born with a predisposition for optimism
and joy, while others are born with a predisposition for fearfulness, pessimism and depression
(
Sheldon & Lyubomirsky
,
 2007
)
.
Given the results presented by research on genetic variables in the eld of well-being, one
might think that some people are born to be happy and live happily, while others are con-
demned to spend a sad life. This conclusion is not as simple and denitive as that, because
there are reasons to believe that well-being can be inuenced and even improved throughout
1
Those with thought disorders or diminished reality-testing capacities (e.g., schizophrenics, manic states of
bipolar disorder)
30
a person's life. Two reasons can be cited that support this statement. The rst reason is that
there are motivational and attitudinal factors that are related to well-being and that are likely
to be voluntarily controlled. Examples of motivational factors include the successful pursuit
of life goals that are intrinsic to the content, consistent with the person's interests, motivations
and values
 (
Lyubomirsky, Sheldon, & Schkade
,
 2005
)
. Concerning the attitudinal aspect, one
can nd for example: the tendency to take an optimistic perspective regarding life situations,
to avoid social comparison and the tendency to feel a sense of efciency regarding one's life
(
Lyubomirsky et al.
,
 2005
)
. The second reason is that research has shown that older people tend
to be happier than younger people. According to the socio-emotional selectivity theory
2
, older
people learn to structure their lives and pursue goals that maximize positive emotions. In their
article "Getting older, getting better? Personal strivings and psychological maturity across the
life span."
 (
Sheldon & Kasser
,
 2001
)
 found that age-related increases in well-being were partly
mediated by volitional changes, including older people's ability to select more enjoyable and
self-appropriate goals. Although some personality traits are seen to be stable over time, people
are able through voluntary action and personal maturity, to pursue goals that give them greater
satisfaction and positive emotions. Another argument that supports the idea that genes are not
necessarily destiny is the fact that they seem to inuence happiness indirectly, by inuencing
the kind of experiences or environment a person seeks to have
 (
Lyubomirsky et al.
,
 2005
)
. As
mentioned in the previous chapter, the effect of demographic factors is partly mediated by social
comparison and adaptation. People feel dissatised because they compare what they have with
other people who earn more than they do, or because they get used to their new state and return
to their basic level of well-being.
It is clear that the perception of the current state affects
people's judgement of their well-being
.
Given that the effect of demographic variables, personality and biological perspectives account
for about 60% of the variance in well-being, and that they can be mediated by other cognitive,
behavioural, motivational or emotional factors, the rest of this chapter will be dedicated to the
search of these latter factors since they account for 40% of the variance in well-being, starting
from the principle that they are malleable, can be learned and represent an element of control
for people over the course of their lives and their ability to cope with difculties.
2
Developed by Stanford psychologist Laura L. Carstensen, is a life-span theory of motivation. The theory
maintains that as time horizons shrink, as they typically do with age, people become increasingly selective, invest-
ing greater resources in emotionally meaningful goals and activities. According to the theory, motivational shifts
also inuence cognitive processing. Ageing is associated with a relative preference for positive over negative in-
formation. This selective narrowing of social interaction maximizes positive emotional experiences and minimizes
emotional risks as individuals become older. According to this theory, older adults systematically hone their social
networks so that available social partners satisfy their emotional needs
31
3.3 Attributes of psychological capital
In this section, some variables will be presented, that could considerably affect well-being. The
aim is not to be denitive about them
3
, but to focus on what people can do outside of their
genetic predispositions and the demographic circumstances around them, to feel well. In other
words, what are the actions, reections and attitudes to adopt in order to improve or acquire
higher levels of well-being. This leads us to ask the following questions:
1) What can we do to give sense to our lives?
2) How should we perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities ?
3) How should we manage our feelings and others' feelings?
3.3.1 Personal striving: What can we do to give meaning to our lives?
Several theories on SWB are telic in nature, proposing that the satisfaction of needs, goals and
desires are linked to the individuals' well-being. Goals refer to people's determination to pro-
duce a particular outcome or achieve a particular level of performance. They are "typically
conceived as consciously articulated, personally important objectives that individuals pursue
in their daily lives"
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
. Individuals will nd their lives meaningful when they have
objectives congruent with their inner selves and they are committed to realizing them, thus
reaching a successful self-actualization and the extension of their personalities. People's behav-
iors and emotions can be understood through the examination of personal striving. This can be
done by observing what they try to do or avoid in different areas of their lives, and how well
they manage to do it. Aside from their contribution to giving meaning to life, goals can be a
barometer of how people are affected. People react positively when they progress towards the
goal, and negatively when they do not
 (
Klug & Maier
,
 2015
)
.
In a study conducted by
 (
Emmons
,
 1986
)
, he examined the relationship between the charac-
teristics of striving goals (e.g., importance, past attainment, effort) and SWB's components.
Apart from coming to the conclusion that personal striving is a useful heuristic device for un-
derstanding individual differences in SWB, the additional following conclusions can be drawn
from this paper:
1) Positive affect was most strongly associated with striving value, past fullment, and degree
of effort that striving requires but not with probability of success.
2) Negative Affect however, was strongly correlated with lowered perceived probability of suc-
cess, low instrumentality
4
(between-striving conict), and striving ambivalence (within-striving
conict) meaning that individuals who experience much negative affect were characterized by
3
Other variables can be integrated under the umbrella of the psychological capital. we are going to propose the
ones we consider the most adequate for our research.
4
The question related to instrumentality, "How much does trying to succeed in the striving change your chances
of success in other strivings?"
32
ambivalence regarding their strivings, and possessed conicting striving systems. Which sup-
ports the goal theorists` statement that conict in the system (when two or more goals are
incompatible) is psychologically injurious.
3) The mere presence of important personal strivings, independent of their past attainment, was
associated with higher life satisfaction. Life satisfaction was found to be positively correlated
with striving instrumentality, past fullment, and probability of future success.
In a study conducted by
 (
Sheldon & Houser-Marko
,
 2001
)
 on undergraduate students, they used
a ve wave panel design and path-modelling techniques to test a two cycle model, in which ini-
tial self-concordant motivation predicts good goal attainment during the rst cycle. Attainment
leads then to increased well-being. In other words, they wanted to check if striving for the right
reasons, people may be able to initiate an upward spiral of positive outcomes. They found that
those who began the semester with goals that matched their implicit values and interests were
better able to attain those goals over the semester, which in turn led to increased adjustment (
social- emotional and academic adjustment). Thus, it is not enough to just have personal goals
in order to expect a better level of well-being. In addition to setting them, they should be con-
sistent with the person's implicit interests, values, and growth trends. This is not often obvious,
as it requires accurate self-perceptual abilities and the ability to resist social pressures that may
sometimes push one in inappropriate directions.
Another aspect that would appear to be as important as the coherence between personal ob-
jectives and people's interests and values, are the resources
5
available to achieve this objective.
Indeed, the more the available resources are used to achieve the personal goal, the more people
will show higher levels of well-being. In other terms, "people who have relatively more of their
resources in the areas that are relevant to their personal strivings, have greater SWB. In contrast,
people who have their higher resources in areas that are less relevant to their strivings tend to
have lower SWB"
 (
Diener & Fujita
,
 1995
)
. This suggests that the impact of objective variables
may be partly mediated by personal goals. In other words, resources could increase well-being
indirectly, by enabling individuals to achieve their personal goals
 (
Diener et al.
,
 1999
)
.
The relationship between personal goals and well-being is far from being simple and straightfor-
ward. People can gain well-being by pursuing goals that are important to them and that reect
their values and interests. Progress towards the goal is also seen as an element that promotes
better SWB levels. However, there can be many challenges between setting the goal and achiev-
ing it. People who have more goals nd themselves living with higher levels of life satisfaction
and self-esteem, but at the same time, they experience more anxiety in their lives
 (
Diener et al.
,
1999
)
.
5
Resources are material, social, or personal characteristics that a person possesses that she can use to make
progress toward her personal goals
33
Having consistent goals is proved to be a major factor in preventing people from experiencing
frequent moments of negative affect. Choosing goals congruent with one's personal motives
and values, self determined and pursued for intrinsic reasons, could also be a critical aspect
for SWB. Having goals focused on challenging yet realistic activities, those that are consonant
with but slightly beyond one's current skills, encourage people to acquire new skills and develop
throughout the process. To sum up, one can consider that the pursuit of personal goals when
accompanied by the right conditions as announced above, would allow people to experience
higher and higher SWB, each time the goal is reached or even through the process of progress
towards it. This well-being is reected in the fact that the person has given herself a meaning to
her life, she has gained a kind of structuring of her daily life and a permanent evolution.
3.3.2 Self-efcacy and optimism: How should we perceive ourselves, our
circumstances, and abilities ?
The previous section talked about personal goals that emphasize the role that people can play
as agents of their well-being through giving meaning to their lives and self-actualization. This
means has also been accompanied by conditions for its impact to be effective on the well-being
of individuals. Two other factors play an important role in mediating the impact of personal
goals on SWB, but above all they also have a direct impact on it. On one hand people tend to
pursue actions that they believe they are capable of undertaking. In other words, they perceive
a certain probability of success for the action. This means that much of the achievement of an
action relies primarily on the beliefs held about it. On the other hand, outcome expectancies
allow people to pursue or give up the realisation of the action. In this section self-efcacy will
be proposed as a psychological variable that represents control beliefs, and optimism that can
inuence outcome expectations.
Self-Efcacy
Efcacy is based on Albert Bandura's (1997) extensive research and social cognitive theory. It
can be dened as "One's belief about her ability to mobilize the motivation, cognitive resources,
and courses of action necessary to execute a specic action within a given context"
 (
Youssef-
Morgan & Luthans
,
 2015
)
. Various self-referential processes allow people to function as self-
regulatory agents who actively negotiate with the social world and exercise extensive control
over their personal experiences. Among the self-referential mechanisms of personal agency,
none is more inuential than beliefs of self-efcacy. That is, the belief of individuals in their
ability to exert control over events that affect their lives. Whatever other factors guide and moti-
vate people's efforts to achieve desired outcomes, they are rooted in the fundamental belief that
one has the power to produce effects through one's own actions
 (
Caprara, Steca, Gerbino, Pa-
ciello, & Vecchio
,
 2006
)
. This core belief is the foundation of human motivation, performance
34
accomplishments, and emotional well-being. Unless people believe they can produce desired
effects by their actions, they have little incentive to undertake activities or persevere in the face
of difculties. The motivation behind each of our abilities to engage in activities is based on
the likelihood that we believe our efforts will be successful. Albert Bandura (1997) referred to
the probability that people estimate that they can take on a particular task as an estimate of their
self-efcacy
 (
Luthans, Youssef, Avolio, et al.
,
 2007
)
. The level of self-efcacy motivates people
to welcome challenges and use their strengths and skills to meet those challenges. It encourages
them to pursue their goals and invest the time and hard work that may be necessary to accom-
plish them. When having high probability regarding their ability to undertake an action, people
can stand against obstacles and persevere in hard times
 (
Luthans et al.
,
 2007
)
. Many theories
recognize the importance of control beliefs for personal well-being. Bandura (1997) posits that
self-efcacy beliefs play important roles in the self-regulation of affective states. Effectiveness
beliefs inuence the interpretation of life events as benign or distressing, the actions taken to
overcome environmental barriers, and the cognitive and emotional strategies used to cope with
events
 (
Lent
,
 2004
)
.
In a study conducted by
 (
Caprara et al.
,
 2006
)
, with the aim of identifying the personal charac-
teristics that lead to successful adaptation from childhood to adulthood, they tested a structural
model with 664 Italian adolescents that utilises adolescents' beliefs in terms of emotional and
interpersonal self-efcacy as proximal and distal determinants of positive thinking and happi-
ness. Research results have shown that perceived self-efcacy in regulating affect and managing
interpersonal relationships, inuences adolescents' subjective well-being. Concurrently, each
form of adolescents' self-efcacy beliefs exerted a positive inuence on adolescents' positive
thinking, namely on their positive view of themselves and their life, as well as on their positive
expectations about their future. Adolescents' social self-efcacy beliefs also exerted a bene-
cial effect on adolescents' positive thinking measured two years later. Likewise, adolescents'
affective and lial self-efcacy
6
beliefs inuenced concurrently adolescents' happiness. Lon-
gitudinally, adolescents' self-appraised capability to manage communication with their parents
and to cope successfully with stressful family situations exerted a signicant inuence on ado-
lescents' happiness two years later. The results of the study clearly indicate that adolescents'
beliefs about their ability to manage their relationships with peers and parents efcaciously con-
tribute to their subjective well-being, thus conrming the important role of self-efcacy as one
of the main indicators of effective individual functioning.
In addition to its inuence on affects, happiness and the level of self-esteem and self acceptance
(
Caprara et al.
,
 2006
)
, self-efcacy can inuence SWB across life domains, indeed, among the
theories proposed to explain individuals' level of well-being one can nd the bottom-up theory,
6
The capacity to hold an open dialogue with their parents and to inuence their parents' attitudes and behavior
constructively.
35
which states that people overall feel happy or satised with their lives when they are happy or
satised in areas of life that are important to them, such as family, work, and health. If a person
feels efcacious in an area that is important to her, has control and agency over it, and can be
satised with it, it will affect her overall well-being.
Generally speaking, a sense of self-efcacy is considered to inuence different processes of
human functioning: cognitive processes, motivation, affect, and selection on environments
(
Schwarzer
,
 2014
)
. For example, in the health eld, Craig Ewart has studied the role of self-
assessments in the rehabilitation of myocardial infarction patients. Convalescence can be pro-
longed much longer than desired due to unwarranted fear of a new infarction when resuming
normal activities. Improved self-efcacy accelerates progress in physical exercise and improves
mood and well-being. Self-efcacy responses to treadmill exercise tests are better predictors of
activity levels than medical data. Pre-workout self-efcacy levels predict post-workout gains
in perseverance in demanding exercise regimens
 (
Schwarzer
,
 2014
)
. Halsted Holman and Kate
Lorig launched an arthritis self-management program to teach patients how to cope with the
consequences of their chronic disease. They found that patients' perception of their own ef-
fectiveness in coping with their disease was a key factor in the program's outcomes. This was
particularly true for pain and depression. The more patients became self-sufcient during train-
ing, the more they were able to tolerate pain and the less depression was reported. The benecial
effects were maintained even after four years of follow-up
 (
Schwarzer
,
 2014
)
. Bandura's Find-
ings from diverse lines of research have documented the inuential role of self-efcacy beliefs
in various other domains of functioning such as learning, work, sports, social adjustment, and
well-being
 (
Caprara et al.
,
 2006
)
. Thus, self-efcacy presents itself as an effective means to
raise individuals' level of well-being, both through its involvement in the achievement of ob-
jectives, but especially through the possibility of its application in all areas of life, since it is
domain specic.
Optimism
The term expectancies was used to refer to beliefs that desirable outcomes could occur, either
through the efforts of the person or through other factors within the person's control. In the tra-
dition of social learning theorists, Bandura differentiated between expectancies of self-efcacy
(one's belief in one's ability to perform a specic behaviour) and expectancies of outcome
(one's belief that a specic behaviour will produce a desired outcome)
 (
Magaletta & Oliver
,
1999
)
. Most relevant in the present context is the idea that people's actions are greatly inu-
enced by their expectations about the consequences of those actions. People who see desired
outcomes as attainable continue to strive toward them, even when progress becomes difcult
or slow. Alternatively, if outcomes seem sufciently unattainable, people withdraw their effort
and disengage themselves from the goals that they have set even if the consequences of such
disengagement are at times severe.
 (
Scheier & Carver
,
 1992
)
.
36
A large body of research has shown that expectations about the future impact well-being in
the present. People who are dispositionally optimistic, that is they have generally positive ex-
pectancies for the future, experience less stress across a wide range of situations, including
stressful situations. Dispositional optimism is associated with better psychological adjustments
to stressors. From general events such as entering university to extreme events such as expe-
riencing trauma
 (
Nes & Segerstrom
,
 2006
)
. A direct inuence of optimism or pessimism is
noticeable in people's feelings when they encounter problems. When facing difculties peo-
ple's emotions vary between enthusiasm and desire and between anger, anxiety or depression.
The balance in feelings is related to differences in optimism. Optimists expect good outcomes,
even when things are hard. This yields relatively positive mix of feelings. Pessimists expect
bad outcomes, which yields more negative feelings
 (
Carver, Scheier, & Segerstrom
,
 2010
)
.
One of the important domains in which the relation between optimism and SWB was inves-
tigated, is in the medical context, e.g., coronary artery bypass surgery, breast cancer, or in vitro
fertilization. The results of the research support the idea that optimistic people felt less dis-
tress before their surgery and were more satised with their lives after surgery
 (
Carver et al.
,
2010
)
. Research on the link between optimism and subjective well-being in the medical eld
has focused more on patients' psychological well-being, their ability to cope with the disease
and their ability to get on with their lives after surgery. Another study done by CABS; Scheier
et al. (1989) with coronary artery bypass patients, who were interviewed one day prior to
surgery, 6 to 8 days post-surgery, and 6 months later, showed that optimistic patients reported
lower levels of hostility and depression compared to pessimistic patients. One week after the
surgery optimistic patients reported feeling happy and relieved. They also reported greater sat-
isfaction with the level of medical care and emotional support they received from family and
friends. Finally, the optimistic patients reported a favourable quality of life after 6 months of
the operation, unlike the pessimistic patients. Other ndings related to optimism and subjective
well-being were recorded among the optimistic patients compared to the pessimistic patients 5
years after the intervention, such as reporting that their life is interesting and diversied, free
of pressures and inconveniences and that they are more satised with their social relationships
and work
 (
Scheier & Carver
,
 1992
)
. The idea that optimism is related to lower levels of distress
during difculty is reinforced by another study by
 (
Aspinwall & Taylor
,
 1992
)
 who examined
the impact of optimism, self-esteem, locus of control, and desire for control on psychological
adjustment to college, health, motivation, and academic performance. The study was longitu-
dinal and assessed personality predispositions, positive and negative affect, social support, and
ways of coping, within days of 672 freshmen's arrival at college. Follow-up measures were
obtained 3 months later, and academic performance was assessed 2 years later. Among the
results recorded by the study after the initial control of positive and negative mood, the investi-
gators came to the conclusion that optimism exerted a direct and positive effect on subsequent
37
adjustment to college. In another study conducted by (Scheirer and Caver 1985) with still un-
dergraduates, the subjects who reported being optimistic early in the college semester were less
likely to be bothered by physical symptoms at the end of the semester, than those scoring lower
on the optimism scale, controlling for initial symptoms.
Although optimism and pessimism are classied as personality traits, interventions like cog-
nitive therapies have proven to be effective in helping pessimistic people become more opti-
mistic by helping them adopt more accurate and constructive explanations of events
 (
Forgeard
& Seligman
,
 2012
)
. In addition to cognitive therapies, interventions have been developed that
primarily target children and adolescents, such as the Penn Resiliency Program developed by
Seligman and colleagues to teach adolescents to recognize the connection between thoughts and
feelings, and to adopt more constructive beliefs when faced with difcult situations
 (
Forgeard
& Seligman
,
 2012
)
.
3.3.3 Emotional intelligence: How should we manage our feelings and
others' feelings?
Emotional intelligence (EI) can be dened as "the ability to monitor one's own and others feel-
ings and emotions, to discriminate among them, and to use this information to guide one's
thinking and actions"
 (
Salovey, Bedell, Detweiler, & Mayer
,
 1999
)
. The skills of perceiving,
understanding, using and managing one's own emotions effectively and those of others sum up
the concept of emotional intelligence
 (
Vesely, Saklofske, & Nordstokke
,
 2014
)
. Competence
in the perception of emotions involves the recognition of facial and vocal cues related to the
emotions of others and awareness of one's own emotionally related body states. The skill of
understanding one's own emotions and those of others consists of knowing the causes and con-
sequences of different emotions and the ability to differentiate between them. The use of one's
own emotions can be applied in the context of creativity, for example. Finally, managing one's
own emotions and those of others means regulating them so that they are compatible with the
demands/needs of the situation or the objectives of the individual
 (
Vesely et al.
,
 2014
)
.
According to Daniel Goleman author of the famous book "Emotional Intelligence: Why it Can
Matter More Than IQ", emotional illiteracy is responsible for many social evils including men-
tal illness, crime, and educational failure. Furthermore, people at work often fall short of their
potential through failing to manage their emotions appropriately. Job satisfaction and produc-
tivity are threatened by unnecessary conicts with co-workers, failure to assert one's legitimate
needs, and failure to communicate one's feelings to others
 (
Zeidner, Matthews, & Roberts
,
2012b
)
. Emotional intelligence has been shown to be associated with a low propensity to ex-
perience negative emotions and a higher propensity to experience positive emotions, thereby
contributing to a rich sense of emotional well-being. Being aware of one's own emotions in-
38
creases the likelihood of being able to regulate them, thus demonstrating low levels of distress
and stress related to emotions
 (
Zeidner & Olnick-Shemesh
,
 2010
)
. Furthermore, moods make
it easier to prioritise life's tasks. Emotions draw our attention to stimuli that need to be treated.
Because moods and emotions sometimes arise when there is a mismatch between expectations
and environmental realities, moods draw attention to oneself to possibly clarify the experience
and facilitate adaptive responses to it
 (
Mayer & Salovey
,
 1993
)
. The same authors also found
that happy and sad moods are followed by an inward shift of attention: such a shift seems to
favour cognitive processes and behavioural activities that can maintain a pleasant atmosphere
or relieve the unpleasant one. Finally, emotional individuals may emphasize higher-level pro-
cesses regarding attention to feelings, clarity and discrimination of feelings, and beliefs about
mood-regulating strategies. Individuals who have clear feelings and condence in their ability
to regulate their affect, appear to be able to repair their mood more quickly and effectively after
failure or other disruptive experiences.
Advances in medicine in recent decades have dramatically changed the patterns of the dis-
ease in modern societies. Infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, cholera, and smallpox are
no longer major causes of death in industrial societies. Today the main causes of morbidity
are rather linked to chronic stress, lifestyles as well as unhealthy behaviours linked to health.
Contemporary biopsychosocial models of disease interpret health and disease as an amalgam
of biological, psychological and social factors, with a more recent emphasis on the role of emo-
tions in these processes. The effect of EI does not only stop at physical and mental health. Other
researches suggest that emotionally intelligent people report greater satisfaction in specic con-
texts such as work as well as social well-being and overall quality of life
 (
Zeidner, Matthews,
& Roberts
,
 2012a
)
.
In a research conducted by
 (
Chamorro-Premuzic, Bennett, & Furnham
,
 2007
)
. The researchers
examined the relationship between the big ve personality traits, EI trait and happiness in a
sample of 112 student and non-student participants. They found that EI accounted for 18% of
the variance in happiness over and above the big ve traits. Furthermore, a signicant amount of
shared variance between happiness and the Big Five was explained by the trait EI, which partly
mediated the paths from stability and conscientiousness to happiness, and fully mediated the
link between agreeableness and happiness. It has become obvious that to be successful in life,
it is not enough to be intelligent in the logical and analytical sense. Different non-intellectual
variants can contribute to the performance of individuals and their self-realization. Emotional
intelligence, whether learned or considered as a personality trait, has proven its importance in
various elds, starting from the organizational eld such as leadership positions to more specic
areas such as personal stress management. A good part of our well being is based on our ability
to perceive our emotions, understand them and in a more subtle way use them in our favour.
Training our ability to better manage our emotions will bring us benets on a personal, social
39
and professional level. These are areas that could play a major role in improving our subjective
well-being.
3.4 Conclusion
This chapter presented four psychological variables that could answer the above questions
namely: 1) What can we do to give meaning to our lives? 2) How should we perceive our-
selves, our circumstances, and abilities ? 3) How should we manage our feelings? We propose
personal striving as a way to give meaning to one's life, we assume that when people follow
goals that are coherent with their personal values and interests, they will achieve self-fullment
on the one hand and development on the other hand, because pursuing personal goals should
be accompanied by a degree of challenge and the opportunity to learn new skills. Objectives
alone are not enough to ensure the well-being of individuals. One must ensure that one has a
belief in one's own abilities to carry out the necessary actions that lead to the achievement of
that goal. In addition to these beliefs, individuals need to have the ability to believe in positive
results or outcomes after the action has been completed. Perceived self-efcacy and optimism
are the essential elements for the achievement of a goal in a particular way and for the subjective
well-being of individuals in an overall way. Believing in one's own abilities and the results that
come from one's actions, allows the person to face obstacles, to make more effort and to perse-
vere. In a study done by
 (
Magaletta & Oliver
,
 1999
)
, that examined the relationships between
the components of hope that are will and way, the two constructs of self-efcacy and optimism,
and general well-being. The authors found that self-efcacy accounted for 30% of the variance
in general well-being followed by optimism with 8% variance in WB.
Emotions are an integral part of our life. They are a pillar of subjective well-being (affect).
Having the ability to become aware of their existence, to be able to interpret them, and to use
them in our favour to better understand ourselves and others, could be an essential asset for im-
proving subjective well-being. The concept of emotional intelligence when developed in people
could balance or improve the emotional aspect of subjective well-being, not to mention that it
can have a positive impact on different areas of life such as health in the rst place, work, edu-
cation, etc.
The assumption is that the psychological capital that constitutes the four concepts of personal
strivings, self-efcacy, optimism, and emotional intelligence, could be responsible for 40% of
the variation in SWB in addition to mediating some of the impact of demographic variables and
personality traits. Future studies on the same subject should focus the attention on this construct
in conjunction with SWB. However, it is important to specify the possibility of integrating other
psychological variables into the construct, or even to propose other components. Since the aim
is not to dene categorically the variables included in the Psychological Assets construct, the
ultimate goal of this theoretical analysis is to attract attention on the inuence of time-varying
40
variables such as those proposed in this chapter on SWB, in order to be able to undertake further
research in this area and implement public policies that promote their development in individ-
uals. Following on from this reection, in the next chapter the introduction of psychological
capital into the educational system is analysed.
41
Chapter 4
Psychological Capital in the Educational
System
4.1 Introduction
In the rst chapter, SWB has been dened as having two components. Affective well-being
and cognitive well-being. The rst component consists of having a balance between positive
and negative affect. The second component is a general evaluation of the person's life. This
evaluation can be done in a holistic way, as it can be done by evaluating each specic life do-
main separately. In the latter case there will be several areas of well-being, such as health-WB,
economic-WB, social-WB, psychological-WB, etc. In other words, the SWB can be summa-
rized in the following equation:
S W B
it
=
f
(
Af f ectiv e:W B
it
; C og nitiv e:W B
it
)
(4.1)
S W B
it
=
f
(
E motional :W B
it
; H eal th:W B
it
; S ocial :W B
it
; P sy chol og ical :W B
it
; E conomic:W B
it
)
In each of the areas listed above, individuals need two kinds of knowledge or skills to en-
sure their development. On the one hand, they need technical skills
T S
specic to each do-
main. These skills reect the knowledge acquired on a particular subject. For example, to stay
healthy, individuals need to know what makes them healthier and what is detrimental to their
health. In the social domain for instance, individuals will need to acquire technical skills such
as communication. However, technical skills alone are not sufcient to ensure improvement in
a specic domain of well-being. Take the case of communication, for example. It is possible
to nd a person who has mastered communication skills, but lacks social self-efcacy or does
not believe that by using her skills she will be able to improve her social well-being. Thus, the
technical tool is already available, but there is a lack of a psychological tool to accompany its
use in order to achieve better levels of well-being. In other cases, one can nd people who have
several technical skills but at the same time feel unsatised with their lives. This kind of situa-
tion can be seen in people with a high level of intellectual and logical intelligence. The problem
in this case does not lie in the inability to use one's technical competence, but rather in the fact
that the person needs psychological skills
P K
to manage certain situations or improve certain
areas such as emotional or social well-being. This means that in order to feel good or satised
in life, people need to equip themselves with technical
T S
and psychological
P K
tools. Thus,
S W B
can be written as a function of
T S
and
P K
:
S W B
it
=
f
(
T S
it
; P K
it
)
(4.2)
4.2 Static model of SWB development
Integrating a program that offers psychological support can be done in a exible way via for
example counselling sessions
1
. Counselling is an intervention that children or teenagers can
1
England is one of the countries that adopt programs such as "counselling in schools" to support pupils in
different areas such as mental health, emotional well-being, resilience, development and the pursuit of personal
43
undertake voluntarily if they want to explore, understand and overcome problems in their lives
that may cause them difculty, distress and/or confusion".
 (
for Education
,
 2015
)
.
Parallel to counselling, a more rigorous form of a curriculum can be conceptualised, that focuses
on pupil's technical and psychological skills and mental health. This program which is aimed to
develop positive psychological resources, will consist of assisting children in achieving greater
understanding of themselves and their relationship to their world, to create a greater awareness
and utilisation of their personal resources, to build their resilience, and to support their ability
to address problems and pursue meaningful goals. In other words, a pedagogical subject could
be included, that would aim to teach pupils the accumulation of
P K
(
H
P K ;pub
>
0
).
In order to maximize their current and future
S W B
, one should nd the best combination be-
tween hours dedicated to technical versus psychological learning (
H
T S; pub
,
H
P K ;pub
)
2
.
4.2.1 Optimal time allocation between technical and psychological learn-
ing skills at school
If we assume that SWB is a function of
T S
and
P K
(
4.2
), which means the more they are
accumulated, the higher the level of SWB will be. In other words:
@ S W B
i
@ T S
i
>
0
;
@ S W B
i
@ P K
i
>
0
And if we assume that the development of
T S
and
P K
is a function of schooling hours
spent in learning them:
P K
=
g
(
H
pk
; H
ts
)
and
T S
=
g
0
(
H
p
k ; H
t
s
)
, we can write SWB as a
function of
H
ts
,
H
pk
.
Let us suppose that SWB follows CES function:
S W B
=
f
(
H
ts;pub
; H
pk ;pub
) = [

(
H
ts;pub
)

+ (1


)(
H
pk ;pub
)

]
1

(4.3)
Given that:

: is a parameter which reects the elasticity of substitution between hours dedicated to psy-
chological learning and technical learning.

: is a share parameter that governs the importance of
H
ts
in producing
S W B
.
Let I denote the investment a school makes for the development of pupils' technical and psy-
chological skills. "I" can be viewed as the school budget, which is split between learning hours
goals. Example model:
Place2B
2
Assuming that the state has no control over hours spent on learning
T S
and
P K
at home
(
H
T S;pr iv
; H
P K ;pr iv
).
44
of both
T S
and
P K
:
3
I
=
P
pk
H
pk
+
P
ts
H
ts
(4.4)
P
pk
and
P
ts
denote the unit prices of
H
pk
and
H
ts
respectively.
The objective thus, is to nd the optimal allocation of time between
T S
and
P K
learning under
the budget constraint (
4.4
), in order to insure
S W B
maximisation. To solve this maximisation
problem, we use the Lagrange function:
L
=
S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
) +

[
I

P
pk
H
pk

P
ts
H
ts
]
(4.5)
First order conditions give us:
@
L
@ H
pk
=
@ S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
)
@ H
pk

P
pk
= 0
(4.6)
@
L
@ H
ts
=
@ S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
)
@ H
ts

P
ts
= 0
(4.7)
@
L
@ 
=
I

P
pk
H
pk

P
ts
H
ts
= 0
(4.8)
We use
ln
S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
)
to facilitate the rst order conditions computation:
ln
S W B
(
H
ts
; H
pk
) =
1

ln[

(
H
ts
)

+ (1


)(
H
pk
)

]
(4.9)
Dividing
 4.6
 over
 4.7
 we get :
@ S W B
(
H
ts
;H
pk
)
@ H
pk
@ S W B
(
H
ts
;H
pk
)
@ H
ts
=
P
pk
P
ts
;
P
pk
P
ts
=
P
(4.10)
Given that:
@ l nS W B
(
H
ts
;H
pk
)
@ H
pk
=
1


(1


)(
H
pk
)


1

(
H
ts
)

+(1


)(
H
pk
)

&
@ l nS W B
(
H
ts
;H
pk
)
@ H
ts
=
1

 
(
H
ts
)


1

(
H
ts
)

+(1


)(
H
pk
)

We can rearrange
 4.10
 as follows:
(1


)
H
pk


1
 H


1
ts
=
P
()
H
pk
= (
1



p
)
1
1


H
ts
;
(
1



p
)
1
1


=

(4.11)
Using
 4.4
 and
 4.11
 we nd
4
:
H

pk
=
I
P
pk
+
P
ts

=
I
P
pk
[1 + (
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
(4.12)
3
For convenience, we will not write the subscript "pub" in the equations, however the hou rs cited are learning
hours spent at school
4
See appendix for the detailed computations
45
H

ts
=
I
P
ts
[1 + (
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


]
(4.13)
Thus, the optimal ratio between the hours dedicated to psychological skills learning in compar-
ison to the technical skills learning is:
H

pk
H

ts
= (
1


P 
)
1
1


=

(4.14)
From
 4.14
 we notice that the optimal ratio between
H
pk
and
H
ts
depends on the relative prices
P
and the parameter

which reects the ability of
H
pk
to compensate
H
ts
decits in producing
T S
and
P K
and thus
S W B
. However, to determine to which extend
H
T S
can be substituted
by
H
P K
, we have to examine the elasticity of substitution between them.
We have :
"
=
d
ln(
H
ts
H
pk
)
d l n
(
S W B
pk
S W B
ts
)
=
d
ln(

)

1
d
ln
P
=
(

1)(
1
1


)
d
[ln(
1



)

l n
P
]
d
ln
P
=
1
1


(4.15)
Thus an increase in the relative prices of 1% will result in an increase in the ratio
H
pk
H
ts
of
"
%
.
We can write
 4.14
 as follows:
H

pk
H

ts
= (
1


P 
)
"
(4.16)
The next step after dening the optimal time allocation by solving the maximisation problem,
and the elasticity of substitution, would be to examine the change of
H

pk
depending on the
change of
P
pk
and
P
ts
. We recall that :
H

pk
=
I
P
pk
[1 + (
P
pk
P
ts
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
(4.17)
We put

1


=
"

1
. The rst derivatives of
H

pk
with respect to
P
pk
and
P
ts
are:
@ H

pk
@ P
pk
=

[1 +
"
(
P
)
"

1
(

1


)
"
]
I
[
P
pk
[1 + (
P
)
"

1
(
1



)
"
]]
2
(4.18)
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
=

[(1

"
)(
P
)
"
(

1


)
"
]
I
[
P
pk
[1 + (
P
)
"

1
(
1



)
"
]]
2
(4.19)
We assume that
"
>
0
. Thus:
@ H

pk
@ P
pk
6
0
. Which means that whatever is the elasticity of
substitution between the hours of psychological skills learning and technical skills learning, the
number of
H

pk
will decrease the more
P
pk
increases.
For
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
we have the following cases:
46
1) If
0
< " <
1
,
1

" >
0
,
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
<
0
: When there is a small elasticity of substitution
between
H

pk
and
H

ts
that means that they are complements, therefore, when
P
ts
increases
H

ts
decreases and so do
H

pk
.
2) If
1
< " <
1 ,
1

" <
0
,
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
>
0
. In this case the elasticity of substitution
between
H

pk
and
H

ts
tends to be high, which means that if
P
ts
increases
H

ts
will be easily
substituted by
H

pk
. If
"
approaches to
1
, there will be perfect substitution between learning
hours dedicated to
T S
and
P K
in producing
S W B
.
3) If
"
= 1
,
@ H

pk
@ P
ts
= 0
. In this case there is an indifference between choosing
H

pk
or
H

pk
in producing
S W B
and
H

pk
will not be affected by the increase of
P
ts
.
The occurrence of the previous cases depends on the nature of the skill learned. For instance, if
we want to teach pupils how to set goals or seek for personal strivings, this skill can be taught at
the same time as learning a technical skill. From being exposed to different subjects, pupils can
discover which subject they feel they lean to (we claim however, that it is not always the case
for all pupils to nd their personal striving easily). Other skills like optimism or emotional in-
telligence are hardly replaced or acquired at the same time as other technical skills. In this case
it can be said that the elasticity of substitution between the hours is close to zero. Therefore,
dedicating a number of hours to the learning of these psychological skills is inevitable. Some
skills such as self-efcacy are needed in the acquisition of technical skills such as math. At
the same time, being good at math helps pupils improve their mathematical self-efcacy. Thus,
there is a mutual inuence between the two skills. To learn to believe in one's abilities with
regard to self-efcacy,
 (
Bandura
,
 1977
)
 identies 4 sources of information, the rst of which is
mastering experiences, which means that each time a person trains in a specic subject, in our
case math, she will acquire mathematical self-efcacy. Thus, extra hours of learning can be of-
fered to pupils who are weak in math, giving them more exercises to solve in order to strengthen
their belief in their mathematical ability. In the same, it is the fact of having acquired mathe-
matical self-efcacy that will help them overcome difculties that arise when learning a new
mathematical subject. Thus, aiming at reinforcing some psychological skills like self-efcacy
from the rst years of schooling is primordial for the acquisition of technical skills in the future.
Because of their different nature, it is difcult to nd psychological skills that can be completely
substituted by other technical ones in producing SWB or vice versa. People can manage get-
ting to some extent to a certain level of SWB, but if they do not use both psychological and
technical skills, they will not reach their optimal SWB level. Skills like emotional intelligence
or optimism will have an important role to play in children's' life as it becomes more complex
with time. Teaching them how to acquire these skills from a young age, will not only help them
at school, but in their lives in general.
47
4.3 Conclusion
The need to integrate psychological skills learning in school is becoming more and more evi-
dent, with all the challenges that individuals face at different stages of their lives. Subjective
well-being depends to a large extent on the mental, psychological and emotional health of indi-
viduals. It is not enough to have a good socio-economic status to be able to say that people feel
good about their lives. Physical and mental health play also a role, as do social relationships.
School systems were designed to enable children to have an intellectual level that will open the
doors to university and later on to a job. However, these same systems have not integrated the
development of the skills we call here psychological skills, which will allow these pupils to give
meaning to their lives by getting to know themselves, to develop goals that will be consistent
with their strengths and be ready to face obstacles when they arise. In this chapter we have pro-
posed a basic model through which our aim was to identify the best allocation of time between
the hours dedicated to the learning of technical and psychological skills in order to maximize
the subjective well-being. Other more sophisticated models can be developed in the same spirit
of integrating the learning of psychological skills into the educational system. Questions such
as: Which skills should we start with? Or which skills should be taught at which level, etc. can
benet from answers based on empirical research.
48
Conclusion
Public policies focus mainly on economic indicators, thereby failing to give importance to an-
other aspect society values, namely individuals' well-being. This is often justied by the fact
that economic indicators are more rigorous, widely available and frequently updated
 (
Diener &
Seligman
,
 2004
)
. With the abundance of products and services especially in modern societies,
people are refocusing their intentions on what is a good life, a life that is enjoyable, meaningful,
engaging and fullling. This quest for satisfaction and joy is justied by the fact that in such so-
cieties, wealth is accompanied by mental and social ills. It is becoming increasingly important
to consider indicators other than economic ones to measure the economic and social prosperity
of societies. More importantly, refocusing the economic analysis on the subjective well-being
helps to give individuals an active role in the society. The more investment is dedicated to their
well-being, the more the emergence of major economic and social problems can be prevented .
In this work the improvement of subjective well-being was proposed through the development
of individuals' psychological capital. Four psychological attributes were chosen to answer the
main questions asked in this thesis namely, personal striving for the question:"What can we
do to give sense to our lives?", self-efcacy and optimism for the question: "How should we
perceive ourselves, our circumstances, and abilities ?" and emotional intelligence for the ques-
tion: "How should we manage our feelings and others feelings?". Among the methods that
can be adopted to achieve this goal, the inclusion of the teaching of psychological capital in
the school system was opted. This approach is supported by the belief that the sooner an indi-
vidual is called to acquire the emotional and cognitive attributes of psychological capital, the
higher will be the return on investment from this learning. The second argument that leads
us to believe that this approach should be adopted, is the fact that it would not be optimal to
leave this task to parents or to personal effort because of differences in the nancial and intel-
lectual capacities. Additionally, when it is adopted as a public policy, the government will call
upon the expertise of various specialists for the implementation of a program that will ensure
the development of psychological skills in a pedagogical way. An optimal time allocation be-
tween hours dedicated to technical and psychological skills learning was proposed as away to
implement psychological capital accumulation in schools. Different cases regarding the time
allocation, were discussed depending on the elasticity of substitution and prices. We came to the
conclusion that there are some psychological skills that could be learned simultaneously with
technical skills, whereas some others should be given a certain amount of time to be learned,
this independently of technical skills learning. According to our knowledge, this work is one of
the few researches that proposes individuals' subjective well-being as an asset to be developed,
in order to ensure social-economic prosperity. More importantly, it proposes the integration of
psychological skills learning in schools. We are convinced that it can open up other perspectives
for empirical research, which will lead to the identication of a public policy oriented primarily
towards the individuals' well-being.
49
References
Aspinwall, L. G., & Taylor, S. E. (1992). Modeling cognitive adaptation: A longitudinal
investigation of the impact of individual differences and coping on college adjustment
and performance.
Journal of personality and social psychology
,
63
(6), 989.
Bandura, A. (1977). Self-efcacy: toward a unifying theory of behavioral change.
Psychologi-
cal review
,
84
(2), 191.
Blanchower, D. G., & Oswald, A. J. (2004). Well-being over time in britain and the usa.
Journal of public economics
,
88
(7-8), 1359Œ1386.
Brunstein, J. C. (1993). Personal goals and subjective well-being: A longitudinal study.
Journal
of personality and social psychology
,
65
(5), 1061.
Caprara, G. V., Steca, P., Gerbino, M., Paciello, M., & Vecchio, G. M. (2006). Looking for
adolescents' well-being: Self-efcacy beliefs as determinants of positive thinking and
happiness.
Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences
,
15
(1), 30Œ43.
Carver, C. S., Scheier, M. F., & Segerstrom, S. C. (2010). Optimism.
Clinical psychology
review
,
30
(7), 879Œ889.
Chamorro-Premuzic, T., Bennett, E., & Furnham, A. (2007). The happy personality: Media-
tional role of trait emotional intelligence.
Personality and individual differences
,
42
(8),
1633Œ1639.
Clark, A. E. (2003). Unemployment as a social norm: Psychological evidence from panel data.
Journal of labor economics
,
21
(2), 323Œ351.
Clark, A. E., Frijters, P., & Shields, M. A. (2008). Relative income, happiness, and utility: An
explanation for the easterlin paradox and other puzzles.
Journal of Economic literature
,
46
(1), 95Œ144.
Diener, E. (2006). Guidelines for national indicators of subjective well-being and ill-being. In
Journal of happiness studies: An interdisciplinary forum on subjective well-being.
Diener, E. (2012). New ndings and future directions for subjective well-being research.
Amer-
ican psychologist
,
67
(8), 590.
Diener, E., & Fujita, F. (1995). Resources, personal strivings, and subjective well-being:
a nomothetic and idiographic approach.
Journal of personality and social psychology
,
68
(5), 926.
Diener, E., Lucas, R., Helliwell, J. F., Helliwell, J., Schimmack, U., et al. (2009).
Well-being
for public policy
. Series in Positive Psychology.
Diener, E., Oishi, S., & Lucas, R. E. (2003). Personality, culture, and subjective well-being:
Emotional and cognitive evaluations of life.
Annual review of psychology
,
54
(1), 403Œ
425.
Diener, E., & Ryan, K. (2009). Subjective well-being: A general overview.
South African
journal of psychology
,
39
(4), 391Œ406.
Diener, E., & Seligman, M. E. (2004). Beyond money: Toward an economy of well-being.
50
Psychological science in the public interest
,
5
(1), 1Œ31.
Diener, E., Suh, E., & Oishi, S. (1997). Recent ndings on subjective well-being.
Indian
journal of clinical psychology
,
24
, 25Œ41.
Diener, E., Suh, E. M., Lucas, R. E., & Smith, H. L. (1999). Subjective well-being: Three
decades of progress.
Psychological bulletin
,
125
(2), 276.
Di Tella, R., Haisken-De New, J., & MacCulloch, R. (2010). Happiness adaptation to income
and to status in an individual panel.
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization
,
76
(3), 834Œ852.
Dolan, P., Peasgood, T., & White, M. (2008). Do we really know what makes us happy? a
review of the economic literature on the factors associated with subjective well-being.
Journal of economic psychology
,
29
(1), 94Œ122.
Ed, D. (1984). Subjective well-being (1984).
Psychological Bulletin
,
95
(3).
Eid, M., & Larsen, R. J. (2008).
The science of subjective well-being
. Guilford Press.
Emmons, R. A. (1986). Personal strivings: An approach to personality and subjective well-
being.
Journal of Personality and Social psychology
,
51
(5), 1058.
Ferrer-i Carbonell, A., & Frijters, P. (2004). How important is methodology for the estimates
of the determinants of happiness?
The Economic Journal
,
114
(497), 641Œ659.
for Education, D. (2015). Counselling in schools: A blueprint for the future.
Forgeard, M., & Seligman, M. (2012). Seeing the glass half full: A review of the causes and
consequences of optimism.
Pratiques psychologiques
,
18
(2), 107Œ120.
Frey, B. S., & Stutzer, A. (2002). What can economists learn from happiness research?
Journal
of Economic literature
,
40
(2), 402Œ435.
Gleibs, I. H., Morton, T. A., Rabinovich, A., Haslam, S. A., & Helliwell, J. F. (2013). Un-
packing the hedonic paradox: A dynamic analysis of the relationships between nancial
capital, social capital and life satisfaction.
British Journal of Social Psychology
,
52
(1),
25Œ43.
Graham, C. (2008). Happiness and health: LessonsŠand questionsŠfor public policy.
Health
affairs
,
27
(1), 72Œ87.
Graham, C., Higuera, L., & Lora, E. (2011). Which health conditions cause the most unhappi-
ness?
Health economics
,
20
(12), 1431Œ1447.
Hayo, B., & Seifert, W. (2003). Subjective economic well-being in eastern europe.
Journal of
economic psychology
,
24
(3), 329Œ348.
Helliwell, J. F. (2006). Well-being, social capital and public policy: what's new?
The economic
journal
,
116
(510), C34ŒC45.
Johnson, W., & Krueger, R. F. (2006). How money buys happiness: genetic and environ-
mental processes linking nances and life satisfaction.
Journal of personality and social
psychology
,
90
(4), 680.
Kahneman, D., & Krueger, A. B. (2006). Developments in the measurement of subjective
well-being.
Journal of Economic perspectives
,
20
(1), 3Œ24.
51
Klug, H. J., & Maier, G. W. (2015). Linking goal progress and subjective well-being: A
meta-analysis.
Journal of Happiness Studies
,
16
(1), 37Œ65.
Knight, J., Lina, S., & Gunatilaka, R. (2009). Subjective well-being and its determinants in
rural china.
China economic review
,
20
(4), 635Œ649.
Lamu, A. N., & Olsen, J. A. (2016). The relative importance of health, income and social
relations for subjective well-being: An integrative analysis.
Social Science & Medicine
,
152
, 176Œ185.
Larsen, R. J., & Eid, M. (2008). Ed diener and the science of subjective well-being.
The science
of subjective well-being
, 1Œ13.
Lelkes, O. (2006). Knowing what is good for you: Empirical analysis of personal preferences
and the ﬁobjective goodﬂ.
The Journal of Socio-Economics
,
35
(2), 285Œ307.
Lent, R. W. (2004). Toward a unifying theoretical and practical perspective on well-being and
psychosocial adjustment.
Journal of Counseling Psychology
,
51
(4), 482.
Luthans, F., Youssef, C. M., Avolio, B. J., et al. (2007). Psychological capital: Developing the
human competitive edge.
Lyubomirsky, S. (2001). Why are some people happier than others? the role of cognitive and
motivational processes in well-being.
American psychologist
,
56
(3), 239.
Lyubomirsky, S., Sheldon, K. M., & Schkade, D. (2005). Pursuing happiness: The architecture
of sustainable change.
Review of general psychology
,
9
(2), 111Œ131.
Magaletta, P. R., & Oliver, J. (1999). The hope construct, will, and ways: Their relations with
self-efcacy, optimism, and general well-being.
Journal of clinical psychology
,
55
(5),
539Œ551.
Mayer, J. D., & Salovey, P. (1993).
The intelligence of emotional intelligence.
Elsevier.
Nes, L. S., & Segerstrom, S. C. (2006). Dispositional optimism and coping: A meta-analytic
review.
Personality and social psychology review
,
10
(3), 235Œ251.
Pavot, W., & Diener, E. (2009). Review of the satisfaction with life scale. In
Assessing well-
being
(pp. 101Œ117). Springer.
Sachs, J. D. (2018). America's health crisis and the easterlin paradox.
World happiness report
,
218
, 146Œ159.
Salovey, P., Bedell, B. T., Detweiler, J. B., & Mayer, J. D. (1999). Coping intelligently.
Coping:
The psychology of what works
, 141Œ164.
Scheier, M. F., & Carver, C. S. (1992). Effects of optimism on psychological and physical
well-being: Theoretical overview and empirical update.
Cognitive therapy and research
,
16
(2), 201Œ228.
Schwarzer, R. (2014).
Self-efcacy: Thought control of action
. Taylor & Francis.
Sheldon, K. M., & Houser-Marko, L. (2001). Self-concordance, goal attainment, and the
pursuit of happiness: Can there be an upward spiral?
Journal of personality and social
psychology
,
80
(1), 152.
Sheldon, K. M., & Kasser, T. (2001). Getting older, getting better? personal strivings and
52
psychological maturity across the life span.
Developmental psychology
,
37
(4), 491.
Sheldon, K. M., & Lyubomirsky, S. (2007). Is it possible to become happier?(and if so, how?).
Social and Personality Psychology Compass
,
1
(1), 129Œ145.
Shields, M. A., & Price, S. W. (2005). Exploring the economic and social determinants of
psychological well-being and perceived social support in england.
Journal of the Royal
Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society)
,
168
(3), 513Œ537.
Van der Meer, P. H. (2014). Gender, unemployment and subjective well-being: Why being
unemployed is worse for men than for women.
Social Indicators Research
,
115
(1), 23Œ
44.
Vesely, A. K., Saklofske, D. H., & Nordstokke, D. W. (2014). Ei training and pre-service
teacher wellbeing.
Personality and Individual Differences
,
65
, 81Œ85.
Youssef-Morgan, C. M., & Luthans, F. (2015). Psychological capital and well-being.
Stress
and Health
,
31
(3), 180Œ188.
Zeidner, M., Matthews, G., & Roberts, R. D. (2012a). The emotional intelligence, health, and
well-being nexus: What have we learned and what have we missed?
Applied Psychology:
Health and Well-Being
,
4
(1), 1Œ30.
Zeidner, M., Matthews, G., & Roberts, R. D. (2012b).
What we know about emotional intelli-
gence: How it affects learning, work, relationships, and our mental health
. MIT press.
Zeidner, M., & Olnick-Shemesh, D. (2010). Emotional intelligence and subjective well-being
revisited.
Personality and individual differences
,
48
(4), 431Œ435.
53
Appendices
54
Appendix A
Appendix
A.0.1 The maximisation problem
We recall that:
(1


)
H
pk


1
 H


1
ts
=
P
()
H
pk
= (
1



p
)
1
1


H
ts
;
(
1



p
)
1
1


=

(A.1)
And:
I
=
P
pk
H
pk
+
P
ts
H
ts
(A.2)
We compute
H
pk
from
 A.1
 and
 A.2
:
H

pk
=
 I
 P
pk
+
P
ts
=
 I
 P
pk
+
P
pk
P
=
 I
P
pk
[

+
1
p
]
=
I
P
pk
[1 +
1

P
]
(A.3)
When we compute
1

p
we nd :
1

p
=
1
P
[
1



P
]
1
1


=
1
P
(
P
)
1


1
[
1



]
1
1


=
1
(
P
)



1
[
1



]
1
1


(A.4)
Thus
H

pk
becomes as follows:
H

pk
=
I
P
pk
[1 + (
P
)

1


[
1



]
1


1
]
(A.5)
From the result of
H

pk
we can compute c as follows:
H

ts
=
H

pk

=
I
P
pk

[1 + (
P
)

1


[
1



]
1


1
]
=
I
P
pk
(
1



P
)
1
1


[1 + (
P
)

1


[
1



]
1


1
]
(A.6)
We have
P
pk
=
P ts

P
thus
H

ts
becomes as follows:
H

ts
=
I
P
ts
P
(
P
)
1


1
(
1



)
1
1


[1 + (
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
=
I
P
ts
(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


[1 + (
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
(A.7)
55
H

ts
=
I
P
ts
[(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


+ 1]
(A.8)
Now we compute
H

P K
H

ts
:
H

P K
H

ts
=
I
P
pk
[1+(
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
I
P
ts
[(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


+1]
=
P
ts
[(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


+ 1]
I
P
pk
[1+(
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
]
(A.9)
We have :
(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


= (
P
1


1
)

(
1



)
1
1


= (
1
P
1
1


)

(
1



)
1
1


= [
1
(
P
)
1
1


][
1
(
P
)
1
1


]


1
(
1



)
1
1


(A.10)
Thus:
(
P
)



1
(
1



)
1
1


=

P
(A.11)
And we have:
(
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
= (
1
P
1


1
)

(
1



)
1


1
= (
1
P
1


1
)


1
(
1
P
1


1
)(
1



)
1


1
(A.12)
Thus:
(
P
)

1


(
1



)
1


1
=
1

P
(A.13)
Using the equations (1.36) and (1.37) in (1.34) we nd:
H

P K
H

ts
=
1
P
[1 +

P
]
[1 +
1

P
]
=

= (
1


P 
)
1
1


(A.14)
56
